Ecclesiastes 1:1	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.	The words of Ecclesiastes, the son of David, king of Jerusalem. 	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.	The words of the preacher, the son of David, king of Jerusalem.	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem:	Words of a preacher, son of David, king in Jerusalem:	The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.	
Ecclesiastes 1:2	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all <i>is</i> vanity.	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher; vanity of vanities, all is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, said Ecclesiastes vanity of vanities, and all is vanity. 	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities! all is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher; vanity of vanities, all is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity.	|Vanity of vanities,| says the Preacher; |Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.|	Vanity of vanities, said the Preacher, Vanity of vanities: the whole is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, said the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 1:3	What profit hath a man of all his labour which he taketh under the sun?	What profit hath man of all his labor wherein he laboreth under the sun?	What hath a man more of all his labour, that he taketh under the sun? 	What profit hath man of all his labour wherewith he laboureth under the sun?	What profit hath man of all his labour wherein he laboureth under the sun?	What profit hath a man of all his labor, which he taketh under the sun?	What does man gain from all his labor in which he labors under the sun?	What advantage is to man by all his labour that he laboureth at under the sun?	What profit has a man of all his labor which he takes under the sun?	
Ecclesiastes 1:4	<i>One</i> generation passeth away, and <i>another</i> generation cometh: but the earth abideth for ever.	One generation goeth, and another generation cometh; but the earth abideth for ever.	One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth standeth for ever. 	One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh, but the earth standeth for ever.	One generation goeth, and another generation cometh; and the earth abideth for ever.	One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth abideth for ever.	One generation goes, and another generation comes; but the earth remains forever.	A generation is going, and a generation is coming, and the earth to the age is standing.	One generation passes away, and another generation comes: but the earth stays for ever.	
Ecclesiastes 1:5	The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose.	The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to its place where it ariseth.	The sun riseth, and goeth down, and returneth to his place: and there rising again, 	The sun also riseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to its place where it ariseth.	The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he ariseth.	The sun also riseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose.	The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hurries to its place where it rises.	Also, the sun hath risen, and the sun hath gone in, and unto its place panting it is rising there.	The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hastens to his place where he arose.	
Ecclesiastes 1:6	The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north; it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits.	The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north; it turneth about continually in its course, and the wind returneth again to its circuits.	Maketh his round by the south, and turneth again to the north: the spirit goeth forward surveying all places round about, and returneth to his circuits. 	The wind goeth towards the south, and turneth about towards the north: it turneth about continually, and the wind returneth again to its circuits.	The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north; it turneth about continually in its course, and the wind returneth again to its circuits.	The wind goeth towards the south, and turneth about to the north; it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to its circuits.	The wind goes toward the south, and turns around to the north. It turns around continually as it goes, and the wind returns again to its courses.	Going unto the south, and turning round unto the north, turning round, turning round, the wind is going, and by its circuits the wind hath returned.	The wind goes toward the south, and turns about to the north; it whirls about continually, and the wind returns again according to his circuits.	
Ecclesiastes 1:7	All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea <i>is</i> not full; unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.	All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full; unto the place whither the rivers go, thither they go again.	All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea doth not overflow: unto the place from whence the rivers come, they return, to flow again. 	All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full: unto the place whither the rivers go, thither they go again.	All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full; unto the place whither the rivers go, thither they go again.	All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full; to the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.	All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers flow, there they flow again.	All the streams are going unto the sea, and the sea is not full; unto a place whither the streams are going, thither they are turning back to go.	All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full; to the place from where the rivers come, thither they return again.	
Ecclesiastes 1:8	All things <i>are</i> full of labour; man cannot utter <i>it</i>: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	All things are full of weariness; man cannot utter it : the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	All things are hard: man cannot explain them by word. The eye is not filled with seeing, neither is the ear filled with hearing. 	All things are full of toil; none can express it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	All things are full of weariness; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	All things are full of labor; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	All things are full of weariness beyond uttering. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	All these things are wearying; a man is not able to speak, the eye is not satisfied by seeing, nor filled is the ear from hearing.	All things are full of labor; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.	
Ecclesiastes 1:9	The thing that hath been, it <i>is that</i> which shall be; and that which is done <i>is</i> that which shall be done: and <i>there is</i> no new <i>thing</i> under the sun.	That which hath been is that which shall be; and that which hath been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.	What is it that hath been? the same thing that shall be. What is it that hath been done? the same that shall be done. 	That which hath been is that which shall be; and that which hath been done is that which will be done: and there is nothing new under the sun.	That which hath been is that which shall be; and that which hath been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.	The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.	That which has been is that which shall be; and that which has been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.	What is that which hath been? it is that which is, and what is that which hath been done? it is that which is done, and there is not an entirely new thing under the sun.	The thing that has been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 1:10	Is there <i>any</i> thing whereof it may be said, See, this <i>is</i> new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us.	Is there a thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been long ago, in the ages which were before us.	Nothing under the sun is new, neither is any man able to say: Behold this is new: for it hath already gone before in the ages that were before us. 	Is there a thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? It hath been already in the ages which were before us.	Is there a thing whereof men say, See, this is new? it hath been already, in the ages which were before us.	Is there any thing of which it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us.	Is there a thing of which it may be said, |Behold, this is new?| It has been long ago, in the ages which were before us.	There is a thing of which one saith: 'See this, it is new!' already it hath been in the ages that were before us!	Is there any thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it has been already of old time, which was before us.	
Ecclesiastes 1:11	<i>There is</i> no remembrance of former <i>things</i>; neither shall there be <i>any</i> remembrance of <i>things</i> that are to come with <i>those</i> that shall come after.	There is no remembrance of the former generations ; neither shall there be any remembrance of the latter generations that are to come, among those that shall come after.	There is no remembrance of former things: nor indeed of those things which hereafter are to come, shall there be any remembrance with them that shall be in the latter end. 	There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be remembrance of things that are to come with those who shall live afterwards.	There is no remembrance of the former generations; neither shall there be any remembrance of the latter generations that are to come, among those that shall come after.	There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after.	There is no memory of the former; neither shall there be any memory of the latter that are to come, among those that shall come after.	There is not a remembrance of former generations; and also of the latter that are, there is no remembrance of them with those that are at the last.	There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after.	
Ecclesiastes 1:12	I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I Ecclesiastes was king over Israel in Jerusalem, 	I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I the preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I, a preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.	I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.	
Ecclesiastes 1:13	And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all <i>things</i> that are done under heaven: this sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith.	And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under heaven: it is a sore travail that God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.	And I proposed in my mind to seek and search out wisely concerning all things that are done under the sun. This painful occupation hath God given to the children of men, to be exercised therein. 	And I applied my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the heavens: this grievous occupation hath God given to the children of men to weary themselves therewith.	And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under heaven: it is a sore travail that God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.	And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven: this grievous labor hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised with it.	I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the sky. It is a heavy burden that God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with.	And I have given my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that hath been done under the heavens. It is a sad travail God hath given to the sons of man to be humbled by it.	And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven: this sore travail has God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith.	
Ecclesiastes 1:14	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all <i>is</i> vanity and vexation of spirit.	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and a striving after wind.	I have seen all things that are done under the sun, and behold all is vanity, and vexation of spirit. 	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and pursuit of the wind.	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and a striving after wind.	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit.	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and behold, all is vanity and a chasing after wind.	I have seen all the works that have been done under the sun, and lo, the whole is vanity and vexation of spirit!	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 1:15	<i>That which is</i> crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.	That which is crooked cannot be made straight; and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.	The perverse are hard to be corrected, and the number of fools is infinite. 	That which is crooked cannot be made straight; and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.	That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.	That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.	That which is crooked can't be made straight; and that which is lacking can't be counted.	A crooked thing one is not able to make straight, and a lacking thing is not able to be numbered.	That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.	
Ecclesiastes 1:16	I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all <i>they</i> that have been before me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.	I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I have gotten me great wisdom above all that were before me in Jerusalem; yea, my heart hath had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.	I have spoken in my heart, saying: Behold I am become great, and have gone beyond all in wisdom, that were before me in Jerusalem: and my mind hath contemplated many things wisely, and I have learned. 	I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I have become great and have acquired wisdom more than all they that have been before me over Jerusalem; and my heart hath seen much of wisdom and knowledge.	I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I have gotten me great wisdom above all that were before me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart hath had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.	I communed with my own heart, saying, Lo, I have come to great estate, and have gained more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem: and my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.	I said to myself, |Behold, I have obtained for myself great wisdom above all who were before me in Jerusalem. Yes, my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.|	I &#8212; I spake with my heart, saying, 'I, lo, I have magnified and added wisdom above every one who hath been before me at Jerusalem, and my heart hath seen abundantly wisdom and knowledge.	I communed with my own heart, saying, See, I am come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem: yes, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.	
Ecclesiastes 1:17	And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.	And I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also was a striving after wind.	And I have given my heart to know prudence, and learning, and errors, and folly: and I have perceived that in these also there was labour, and vexation of spirit, 	And I applied my heart to the knowledge of wisdom, and to the knowledge of madness and folly: I perceived that this also is a striving after the wind.	And I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also was a striving after wind.	And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.	I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also was a chasing after wind.	And I give my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I have known that even this is vexation of spirit;	And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 1:18	For in much wisdom <i>is</i> much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.	For in much wisdom is much grief; and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.	Because In much wisdom there is much indignation: and he that addeth knowledge, addeth also labour. 	For in much wisdom is much vexation, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.	For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.	For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.	For in much wisdom is much grief; and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.	for, in abundance of wisdom is abundance of sadness, and he who addeth knowledge addeth pain.'	For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increases knowledge increases sorrow.	
Ecclesiastes 2:1	I said in mine heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also <i>is</i> vanity.	I said in my heart, Come now, I will prove thee with mirth; therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also was vanity.	I said in my heart: I will go, and abound with delights, and enjoy good things. And I saw that this also was vanity. 	I said in my heart, Come now, I will try thee with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure. But behold, this also is vanity.	I SAID in mine heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth; therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also was vanity.	I said in my heart, Come now, I will prove thee with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure: and behold, this also is vanity.	I said in my heart, |Come now, I will test you with mirth: therefore enjoy pleasure;| and behold, this also was vanity.	I said in my heart, 'Pray, come, I try thee with mirth, and look thou on gladness;' and lo, even it is vanity.	I said in my heart, Go to now, I will prove you with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 2:2	I said of laughter, <i>It is</i> mad: and of mirth, What doeth it?	I said of laughter, It is mad; and of mirth, What doeth it?	Laughter I counted error: and to mirth I said: Why art thou vainly deceived? 	I said of laughter, Madness! and of mirth, What availeth it?	I said of laughter, It is mad: and of mirth, What doeth it?	I said of laughter, It is mad: and of mirth, What doeth it?	I said of laughter, |It is foolishness;| and of mirth, |What does it accomplish?|	Of laughter I said, 'Foolish!' and of mirth, 'What is this it is doing?'	I said of laughter, It is mad: and of mirth, What does it?	
Ecclesiastes 2:3	I sought in mine heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquainting mine heart with wisdom; and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what <i>was</i> that good for the sons of men, which they should do under the heaven all the days of their life.	I searched in my heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, my heart yet guiding me with wisdom, and how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what it was good for the sons of men that they should do under heaven all the days of their life.	I thought in my heart, to withdraw my flesh from wine, that I might turn my mind to wisdom, and might avoid folly, till I might see what was profitable for the children of men: and what they ought to do under the sun, all the days of their life. 	I searched in my heart how to cherish my flesh with wine, while practising my heart with wisdom; and how to lay hold on folly, till I should see what was that good for the children of men which they should do under the heavens all the days of their life.	I searched in mine heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, mine heart yet guiding me with wisdom, and how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what it was good for the sons of men that they should do under the heaven all the days of their life.	I sought in my heart, to give myself to wine, yet acquainting my heart with wisdom; and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was that good for the sons of men, which they should do under the heaven all the days of their life.	I searched in my heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, my heart yet guiding me with wisdom, and how to lay hold of folly, until I might see what it was good for the sons of men that they should do under heaven all the days of their lives.	I have sought in my heart to draw out with wine my appetite, (and my heart leading in wisdom), and to take hold on folly till that I see where is this &#8212; the good to the sons of man of that which they do under the heavens, the number of the days of their lives.	I sought in my heart to give myself to wine, yet acquainting my heart with wisdom; and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was that good for the sons of men, which they should do under the heaven all the days of their life.	
Ecclesiastes 2:4	I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards:	I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards;	I made me great works, I built me houses, and planted vineyards, 	I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards;	I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards;	I made me great works; I built me houses; I planted me vineyards:	I made myself great works. I built myself houses. I planted myself vineyards.	I made great my works, I builded for me houses, I planted for me vineyards.	I made me great works; I built me houses; I planted me vineyards:	
Ecclesiastes 2:5	I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all <i>kind of</i> fruits:	I made me gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit;	I made gardens, and orchards, and set them with trees of all kinds, 	I made me gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of every kind of fruit;	I made me gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit:	I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kind of fruits:	I made myself gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit.	I made for me gardens and paradises, and I planted in them trees of every fruit.	I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kind of fruits:	
Ecclesiastes 2:6	I made me pools of water, to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees:	I made me pools of water, to water therefrom the forest where trees were reared;	And I made me ponds of water, to water therewith the wood of the young trees, 	I made me ponds of water, to water therewith the wood, where the trees are reared.	I made me pools of water, to water therefrom the forest where trees were reared:	I made me pools of water, to water with them the wood that bringeth forth trees:	I made myself pools of water, to water from it the forest where trees were reared.	I made for me pools of water, to water from them a forest shooting forth trees.	I made me pools of water, to water therewith the wood that brings forth trees:	
Ecclesiastes 2:7	I got <i>me</i> servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me:	I bought men-servants and maid-servants, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of herds and flocks, above all that were before me in Jerusalem;	I got me menservants, and maidservants, and had a great family: and herds of oxen, and great flocks of sheep, above all that were before me in Jerusalem: 	I acquired servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of herds and flocks, above all that had been in Jerusalem before me.	I bought menservants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of herds and flocks, above all that were before me in Jerusalem:	I procured me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me:	I bought male servants and female servants, and had servants born in my house. I also had great possessions of herds and flocks, above all who were before me in Jerusalem;	I got men-servants, and maid-servants, and sons of the house were to me; also, I had much substance &#8212; herd and flock &#8212; above all who had been before me in Jerusalem.	I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me:	
Ecclesiastes 2:8	I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces: I gat me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men, <i>as</i> musical instruments, and that of all sorts.	I gathered me also silver and gold, and the treasure of kings and of the provinces; I gat me men-singers and women-singers, and the delights of the sons of men, musical instruments, and that of all sorts.	I heaped together for myself silver and gold, and the wealth of kings, and provinces: I made me singing men, and singing women, and the delights of the sons of men, cups and vessels to serve to pour out wine: 	I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces; I got me men-singers and women-singers, and the delights of the children of men, a wife and concubines.	I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces: I gat me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men, concubines very many.	I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings, and of the provinces: I procured me men-singers and women-singers, and the delights of the sons of men, as musical instruments, and of all sorts.	I also gathered silver and gold for myself, and the treasure of kings and of the provinces. I got myself male and female singers, and the delights of the sons of men&#8212;musical instruments, and that of all sorts.	I gathered for me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces. I prepared for me men-singers and women-singers, and the luxuries of the sons of man &#8212; a wife and wives.	I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces: I got me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men, as musical instruments, and that of all sorts.	
Ecclesiastes 2:9	So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.	So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.	And I surpassed in riches all that were before me in Jerusalem: my wisdom also remained with me. 	And I became great, and increased more than all that had been before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.	So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.	So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.	So I was great, and increased more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. My wisdom also remained with me.	And I became great, and increased above every one who had been before me in Jerusalem; also, my wisdom stood with me.	So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.	
Ecclesiastes 2:10	And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them, I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labour: and this was my portion of all my labour.	And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them; I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced because of all my labor; and this was my portion from all my labor.	And whatsoever my eyes desired, I refused them not: and I withheld not my heart from enjoying every pleasure, and delighting itself in the things which I had prepared: and esteemed this my portion, to make use of my own labour. 	And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them: I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labour, and this was my portion from all my labour.	And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them: I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced because of all my labour; and this was my portion from all my labour.	And whatever my eyes desired I kept not from them, I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labor: and this was my portion of all my labor.	Whatever my eyes desired, I didn't keep from them. I didn't withhold my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced because of all my labor, and this was my portion from all my labor.	And all that mine eyes asked I kept not back from them; I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced because of all my labour, and this hath been my portion, from all my labour,	And whatever my eyes desired I kept not from them, I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labor: and this was my portion of all my labor.	
Ecclesiastes 2:11	Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labour that I had laboured to do: and, behold, all <i>was</i> vanity and vexation of spirit, and <i>there was</i> no profit under the sun.	Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do; and, behold, all was vanity and a striving after wind, and there was no profit under the sun.	And when I turned myself to all the works which my hands had wrought, and to the labours wherein I had laboured in vain, I saw in all things vanity, and vexation of mind, and that nothing was lasting under the sun. 	Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labour that it had cost me to do them; and behold, all was vanity and pursuit of the wind, and there was no profit under the sun.	Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labour that I had laboured to do: and, behold, all was vanity and a striving after wind, and there was no profit under the sun.	Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do: and behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun.	Then I looked at all the works that my hands had worked, and at the labor that I had labored to do; and behold, all was vanity and a chasing after wind, and there was no profit under the sun.	and I have looked on all my works that my hands have done, and on the labour that I have laboured to do, and lo, the whole is vanity and vexation of spirit, and there is no advantage under the sun!	Then I looked on all the works that my hands had worked, and on the labor that I had labored to do: and, behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 2:12	And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what <i>can</i> the man <i>do</i> that cometh after the king? <i>even</i> that which hath been already done.	And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which hath been done long ago.	I passed further to behold wisdom, and errors and folly, (What is man, said I, that he can follow the King his maker?) 	And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly; for what shall the man do that cometh after the king? that which hath already been done.	And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness and folly; for what can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which hath been already done.	And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which hath been already done.	I turned myself to consider wisdom, madness, and folly: for what can the king's successor do? Just that which has been done long ago.	And I turned to see wisdom, and madness, and folly, but what is the man who cometh after the king? that which is already &#8212; they have done it!	And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what can the man do that comes after the king? even that which has been already done.	
Ecclesiastes 2:13	Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth darkness.	Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth darkness.	And I saw that wisdom excelled folly, as much as light differeth from darkness. 	And I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as light excelleth darkness.	Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth darkness.	Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth darkness.	Then I saw that wisdom excels folly, as far as light excels darkness.	And I saw that there is an advantage to wisdom above folly, like the advantage of the light above the darkness.	Then I saw that wisdom excels folly, as far as light excels darkness.	
Ecclesiastes 2:14	The wise man's eyes <i>are</i> in his head; but the fool walketh in darkness: and I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to them all.	The wise man's eyes are in his head, and the fool walketh in darkness: and yet I perceived that one event happeneth to them all.	The eyes of a wise man are in his head: the fool walketh in darkness: and I learned that they were to die both alike. 	The wise man's eyes are in his head, and the fool walketh in darkness; but I myself also perceived that one event happeneth to them all.	The wise man's eyes are in his head, and the fool walketh in darkness: and yet I perceived that one event happeneth to them all.	The wise man's eyes are in his head; but the fool walketh in darkness: and I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to them all.	The wise man's eyes are in his head, and the fool walks in darkness&#8212;and yet I perceived that one event happens to them all.	The wise! &#8212; his eyes are in his head, and the fool in darkness is walking, and I also knew that one event happeneth with them all;	The wise man's eyes are in his head; but the fool walks in darkness: and I myself perceived also that one event happens to them all.	
Ecclesiastes 2:15	Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it happeneth even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this also <i>is</i> vanity.	Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then said I in my heart, that this also is vanity.	And I said in my heart: If the death of the fool and mine shall be one, what doth it avail me, that I have applied myself more to the study of wisdom? And speaking with my own mind, I perceived that this also was vanity. 	And I said in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool so will it happen even to me; and why was I then so wise? Then I said in my heart that this also is vanity.	Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this also was vanity.	Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it happeneth even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this also is vanity.	Then I said in my heart, |As it happens to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more wise?| Then I said in my heart that this also is vanity.	and I said in my heart, 'As it happeneth with the fool, it happeneth also with me, and why am I then more wise?' And I spake in my heart, that also this is vanity:	Then said I in my heart, As it happens to the fool, so it happens even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this also is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 2:16	For <i>there is</i> no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool for ever; seeing that which now <i>is</i> in the days to come shall all be forgotten. And how dieth the wise <i>man</i>? as the fool.	For of the wise man, even as of the fool, there is no remembrance for ever; seeing that in the days to come all will have been long forgotten. And how doth the wise man die even as the fool!	For there shall be no remembrance of the wise no more than of the fool for ever, and the times to come shall cover all things together with oblivion: the learned dieth in like manner as the unlearned. 	For there shall be no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool for ever; because everything is already forgotten in the days which come. And how dieth the wise even as the fool?	For of the wise man, even as of the fool, there is no remembrance for ever; seeing that in the days to come all will have been already forgotten. And how doth the wise man die even as the fool!	For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool for ever; seeing that which now is in the days to come shall all be forgotten. And how dieth the wise man? as the fool.	For of the wise man, even as of the fool, there is no memory for ever, since in the days to come all will have been long forgotten. Indeed, the wise man must die just like the fool!	That there is no remembrance to the wise &#8212; with the fool &#8212; to the age, for that which is already, in the days that are coming is all forgotten, and how dieth the wise? with the fool!	For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool for ever; seeing that which now is in the days to come shall all be forgotten.  And how dies the wise man? as the fool.	
Ecclesiastes 2:17	Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the sun <i>is</i> grievous unto me: for all <i>is</i> vanity and vexation of spirit.	So I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun was grievous unto me; for all is vanity and a striving after wind.	And therefore I was weary of my life, when I saw that all things under the sun are evil, and all vanity and vexation of spirit. 	And I hated life; for the work that is wrought under the sun was grievous unto me; for all is vanity and pursuit of the wind.	So I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the sun was grievous unto me: for all is vanity and a striving after wind.	Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous to me: for all is vanity and vexation of spirit.	So I hated life, because the work that is worked under the sun was grievous to me; for all is vanity and a chasing after wind.	And I have hated life, for sad to me is the work that hath been done under the sun, for the whole is vanity and vexation of spirit.	Therefore I hated life; because the work that is worked under the sun is grievous to me: for all is vanity and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 2:18	Yea, I hated all my labour which I had taken under the sun: because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me.	And I hated all my labor wherein I labored under the sun, seeing that I must leave it unto the man that shall be after me.	Again I hated all my application wherewith I had earnestly laboured under the sun, being like to have an heir after me, 	And I hated all my labour wherewith I had been toiling under the sun, because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me.	And I hated all my labour wherein I laboured under the sun: seeing that I must leave it unto the man that shall be after me.	Yes, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun: because I should leave it to the man that shall be after me.	I hated all my labor in which I labored under the sun, because I must leave it to the man who comes after me.	And I have hated all my labour that I labour at under the sun, because I leave it to a man who is after me.	Yes, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun: because I should leave it to the man that shall be after me.	
Ecclesiastes 2:19	And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise <i>man</i> or a fool? yet shall he have rule over all my labour wherein I have laboured, and wherein I have shewed myself wise under the sun. This <i>is</i> also vanity.	And who knoweth whether he will be a wise man or a fool? yet will he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored, and wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity.	Whom I know not whether he will be a wise man or a fool, and he shall have rule over all my labours with which I have laboured and been solicitous: and is there any thing so vain? 	And who knoweth whether he will be a wise man or a fool? yet shall he have rule over all my labour at which I have laboured, and wherein I have been wise under the sun. This also is vanity.	And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet shall he have rule over all my labour wherein I have laboured, and wherein I have shewed wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity.	And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet shall he have rule over all my labor in which I have labored, and in which I have showed myself wise under the sun. This is also vanity.	Who knows whether he will be a wise man or a fool? Yet he will have rule over all of my labor in which I have labored, and in which I have shown myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity.	And who knoweth whether he is wise or foolish? yet he doth rule over all my labour that I have laboured at, and that I have done wisely under the sun! this also is vanity.	And who knows whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet shall he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored, and wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This is also vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 2:20	Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labour which I took under the sun.	Therefore I turned about to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labor wherein I had labored under the sun.	Wherefore I left off and my heart renounced labouring any more under the sun. 	Then I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labour wherewith I had laboured under the sun.	Therefore I turned about to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labour wherein I had laboured under the sun.	Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun.	Therefore I began to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labor in which I had labored under the sun.	And I turned round to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labour that I laboured at under the sun.	Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 2:21	For there is a man whose labour <i>is</i> in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity; yet to a man that hath not laboured therein shall he leave it <i>for</i> his portion. This also <i>is</i> vanity and a great evil.	For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, and with knowledge, and with skilfulness; yet to a man that hath not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.	For when a man laboureth in wisdom, and knowledge, and carefulness, he leaveth what he hath gotten to an idle man: so this also is vanity, and a great evil. 	For there is a man whose labour hath been with wisdom, and with knowledge, and with skill, and who leaveth it to a man that hath not laboured therein, to be his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.	For there is a man whose labour is with wisdom, and with knowledge, and with skilfulness; yet to a man that hath not laboured therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.	For there is a man whose labor is in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity; yet to a man that hath not labored in it, shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.	For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, with knowledge, and with skillfulness; yet he shall leave it for his portion to a man who has not labored for it. This also is vanity and a great evil.	For there is a man whose labour is in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity, and to a man who hath not laboured therein he giveth it &#8212; his portion! Even this is vanity and a great evil.	For there is a man whose labor is in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity; yet to a man that has not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.	
Ecclesiastes 2:22	For what hath man of all his labour, and of the vexation of his heart, wherein he hath laboured under the sun?	For what hath a man of all his labor, and of the striving of his heart, wherein he laboreth under the sun?	For what profit shall a man have of all his labour, and vexation of spirit, with which he bath been tormented under the sun? 	For what will man have of all his labour and of the striving of his heart, wherewith he hath wearied himself under the sun?	For what hath a man of all his labour, and of the striving of his heart, wherein he laboureth under the sun?	For what hath man of all his labor, and of the vexation of his heart, in which he hath labored under the sun?	For what has a man of all his labor, and of the striving of his heart, in which he labors under the sun?	For what hath been to a man by all his labour, and by the thought of his heart that he laboured at under the sun?	For what has man of all his labor, and of the vexation of his heart, wherein he has labored under the sun?	
Ecclesiastes 2:23	For all his days <i>are</i> sorrows, and his travail grief; yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This is also vanity.	For all his days are but'sorrows, and his travail is grief; yea, even in the night his heart taketh no rest. This also is vanity.	All his days axe full of sorrows and miseries, even in the night he doth not rest in mind: and is not this vanity? 	For all his days are sorrows, and his travail vexation: even in the night his heart taketh no rest. This also is vanity.	For all his days are but sorrows, and his travail is grief; yea, even in the night his heart taketh no rest. This also is vanity.	For all his days are sorrows, and his labor grief; yes, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This is also vanity.	For all his days are sorrows, and his travail is grief; yes, even in the night his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity.	For all his days are sorrows, and his travail sadness; even at night his heart hath not lain down; this also is vanity.	For all his days are sorrows, and his travail grief; yes, his heart takes not rest in the night. This is also vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 2:24	<i>There is</i> nothing better for a man, <i>than</i> that he should eat and drink, and <i>that</i> he should make his soul enjoy good in his labour. This also I saw, that it <i>was</i> from the hand of God.	There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw, that it is from the hand of God.	Is it not better to eat and drink, and to shew his soul good things of his labours? and this is from the hand of God. 	There is nothing good for man, but that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labour. This also I saw, that it was from the hand of God.	There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and make his soul enjoy good in his labour. This also I saw, that it is from the hand of God.	There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw, that it was from the hand of God.	There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw, that it is from the hand of God.	There is nothing good in a man who eateth, and hath drunk, and hath shewn his soul good in his labour. This also I have seen that it is from the hand of God.	There is nothing better for a man, than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw, that it was from the hand of God.	
Ecclesiastes 2:25	For who can eat, or who else can hasten <i>hereunto</i>, more than I?	For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I?	Who shall so feast and abound with delights as I? 	For who can eat, or who be eager, more than I?	For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I?	For who can eat, or who else can hasten to it more than I?	For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I?	For who eateth and who hasteth out more than I?	For who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto, more than I?	
Ecclesiastes 2:26	For <i>God</i> giveth to a man that <i>is</i> good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to <i>him that is</i> good before God. This also <i>is</i> vanity and vexation of spirit.	For to the man that pleaseth him God giveth wisdom, and knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that pleaseth God. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.	God hath given to a man that is good in his sight, wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he hath given vexation, and superfluous care, to heap up and to gather together, and to give it to him that hath pleased God: but this also is vanity, and a fruitless solicitude of the mind. 	For he giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he giveth travail to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good in God's sight. This also is vanity and pursuit of the wind.	For to the man that pleaseth him God giveth wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that pleaseth God. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.	For God giveth to a man who is good in his sight, wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth toil, to gather, and to amass, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit.	For to the man who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he gives travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him who pleases God. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.	For to a man who is good before Him, He hath given wisdom, and knowledge, and joy; and to a sinner He hath given travail, to gather and to heap up, to give to the good before God. Even this is vanity and vexation of spirit.	For God gives to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he gives travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 3:1	To every <i>thing there is</i> a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:	For everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven:	All things have their season, and in their times all things pass under heaven. 	To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heavens:	To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:	To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:	For everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven:	To everything &#8212; a season, and a time to every delight under the heavens:	To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:	
Ecclesiastes 3:2	A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up <i>that which is</i> planted;	a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;	A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted. 	A time to be born, and a time to die; A time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;	a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;	A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;	a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;	A time to bring forth, And a time to die. A time to plant, And a time to eradicate the planted.	A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;	
Ecclesiastes 3:3	A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	A time to kill, and a time to heal. A time to destroy, and a time to build. 	A time to kill, and a time to heal; A time to break down, and a time to build up;	a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	A time to slay, And a time to heal, A time to break down, And a time to build up.	A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;	
Ecclesiastes 3:4	A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;	a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;	A time to weep, and a time to laugh. A time to mourn, and a time to dance. 	A time to weep, and a time to laugh; A time to mourn, and a time to dance;	a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;	A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;	a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;	A time to weep, And a time to laugh. A time to mourn, And a time to skip.	A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;	
Ecclesiastes 3:5	A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	A time to scatter stones, and a time to gather. A time to embrace, and a time to be far from embraces. 	A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	A time to cast away stones, And a time to heap up stones. A time to embrace, And a time to be far from embracing.	A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;	
Ecclesiastes 3:6	A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;	a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;	A time to get, and a time to lose. A time to keep, and a time to cast away. 	A time to seek, and a time to lose; A time to keep, and a time to cast away;	a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;	A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;	a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;	A time to seek, And a time to destroy. A time to keep, And a time to cast away.	A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;	
Ecclesiastes 3:7	A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	a time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	A time to rend, and a time to sew. A time to keep silence, and a time to speak. 	A time to rend, and a time to sew; A time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	a time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	a time to tear, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	A time to rend, And a time to sew. A time to be silent, And a time to speak.	A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;	
Ecclesiastes 3:8	A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.	a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.	A time of love, and a time of hatred. A time of war, and a time of peace. 	A time to love, and a time to hate; A time of war, and a time of peace.	a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.	A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.	a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.	A time to love, And a time to hate. A time of war, And a time of peace.	A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.	
Ecclesiastes 3:9	What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboureth?	What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth?	What hath man more of his labour? 	What profit hath he that worketh from that wherein he laboureth?	What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboureth?	What profit hath he that worketh in that in which he laboreth?	What profit has he who works in that in which he labors?	What advantage hath the doer in that which he is labouring at?	What profit has he that works in that wherein he labors?	
Ecclesiastes 3:10	I have seen the travail, which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it.	I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.	I have seen the trouble, which God hath given the sons of men to be exercised in it. 	I have seen the travail that God hath given to the sons of men to toil in.	I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.	I have seen the labor, which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it.	I have seen the burden which God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with.	I have seen the travail that God hath given to the sons of man to be humbled by it.	I have seen the travail, which God has given to the sons of men to be exercised in it.	
Ecclesiastes 3:11	He hath made every <i>thing</i> beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end.	He hath made everything beautiful in its time: also he hath set eternity in their heart, yet so that man cannot find out the work that God hath done from the beginning even to the end.	He hath made all things good in their time, and hath delivered the world to their consideration, so that man cannot flnd out the work which God hath made from the beginning to the end. 	He hath made everything beautiful in its time; also he hath set the world in their heart, so that man findeth not out from the beginning to the end the work that God doeth.	He hath made every thing beautiful in its time: also he hath set the world in their heart, yet so that man cannot find out the work that God hath done from the beginning even to the end.	He hath made every thing beautiful in its time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end.	He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also set eternity in their hearts, yet so that man can't find out the work that God has done from the beginning even to the end.	The whole He hath made beautiful in its season; also, that knowledge He hath put in their heart without which man findeth not out the work that God hath done from the beginning even unto the end.	He has made every thing beautiful in his time: also he has set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God makes from the beginning to the end.	
Ecclesiastes 3:12	I know that <i>there is</i> no good in them, but for <i>a man</i> to rejoice, and to do good in his life.	I know that there is nothing better for them, than to rejoice, and to do good so long as they live.	And I have known that there was no better thing than to rejoice, and to do well in this life. 	I know that there is nothing good for them but to rejoice and to do well in their life;	I know that there is nothing better for them, than to rejoice, and to do good so long as they live.	I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice, and to do good in his life.	I know that there is nothing better for them than to rejoice, and to do good as long as they live.	I have known that there is no good for them except to rejoice and to do good during their life,	I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice, and to do good in his life.	
Ecclesiastes 3:13	And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the good of all his labour, it <i>is</i> the gift of God.	And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labor, is the gift of God.	For every man that eateth and drinketh, and seeth good of his labour, this is the gift of God. 	yea also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labour, it is the gift of God.	And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labour, is the gift of God.	And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the good of all his labor, it is the gift of God.	Also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labor, is the gift of God.	yea, even every man who eateth and hath drunk and seen good by all his labour, it is a gift of God.	And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the good of all his labor, it is the gift of God.	
Ecclesiastes 3:14	I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doeth <i>it</i>, that <i>men</i> should fear before him.	I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it; and God hath done it, that men should fear before him.	I have learned that all the works which God hath made, continue for ever: we cannot add any thing, nor take away from those things which God hath made that he may be feared. 	I know that whatever God doeth, it shall be for ever; there is nothing to be added to it, nor anything to be taken from it; and God doeth it, that men should fear before him.	I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God hath done it, that men should fear before him.	I know that, whatever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be added to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doeth it, that men should fear before him.	I know that whatever God does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it; and God has done it, that men should fear before him.	I have known that all that God doth is to the age, to it nothing is to be added, and from it nothing is to be withdrawn; and God hath wrought that they do fear before Him.	I know that, whatever God does, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God does it, that men should fear before him.	
Ecclesiastes 3:15	That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been; and God requireth that which is past.	That which is hath been long ago; and that which is to be hath long ago been: and God seeketh again that which is passed away.	That which hath been made, the same continueth: the things that shall be, have already been: and God restoreth that which is past. 	That which is was long ago, and that which is to be hath already been; and God bringeth back again that which is past.	That which is hath been already; and that which is to be hath already been: and God seeketh again that which is passed away.	That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been; and God requireth that which is past.	That which is has been long ago, and that which is to be has been long ago: and God seeks again that which is passed away.	What is that which hath been? already it is, and that which is to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is pursued.	That which has been is now; and that which is to be has already been; and God requires that which is past.	
Ecclesiastes 3:16	And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, <i>that</i> wickedness <i>was</i> there; and the place of righteousness, <i>that</i> iniquity <i>was</i> there.	And moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of justice, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there.	I saw under the sun in the place of judgment wickedness, and in the place of justice iniquity. 	And moreover I saw under the sun, that in the place of judgment, wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, wickedness was there.	And moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of judgment, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there.	And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, that wickedness was there; and the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there.	Moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of justice, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there.	And again, I have seen under the sun the place of judgment &#8212; there is the wicked; and the place of righteousness &#8212; there is the wicked.	And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, that wickedness was there; and the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there.	
Ecclesiastes 3:17	I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked: for <i>there is</i> a time there for every purpose and for every work.	I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.	And I said in my heart: God shall judge both the just and the wicked, and then shall be the time of every thing. 	I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.	I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.	I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.	I said in my heart, |God will judge the righteous and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.|	I said in my heart, 'The righteous and the wicked doth God judge, for a time is to every matter and for every work there.'	I said in my heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.	
Ecclesiastes 3:18	I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that they might see that they themselves are beasts.	I said in my heart, It is because of the sons of men, that God may prove them, and that they may see that they themselves are but as beasts.	I said in my heart concerning the sons of men, that God would prove them, and shew them to be like beasts. 	I said in my heart, It is thus with the children of men, that God may prove them, and that they should see that they themselves are but beasts.	I said in mine heart, It is because of the sons of men, that God may prove them, and that they may see that they themselves are but as beasts.	I said in my heart concerning the state of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that they might see that they themselves are beasts.	I said in my heart, |As for the sons of men, God tests them, so that they may see that they themselves are like animals.	I said in my heart concerning the matter of the sons of man that God might cleanse them, so as to see that they themselves are beasts.	I said in my heart concerning the estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that they might see that they themselves are beasts.	
Ecclesiastes 3:19	For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast: for all <i>is</i> vanity.	For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; and man hath no preeminence above the beasts: for all is vanity.	Therefore the death of man, and of beasts is one, and the condition of them both is equal: as man dieth, so they also die: all things breathe alike, and man hath nothing more than beast: all things are subject to vanity. 	For what befalleth the children of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other, and they have all one breath; and man hath no pre-eminence above the beast: for all is vanity.	For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; and man hath no preeminence above the beasts: for all is vanity.	For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yes, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no pre-eminence above a beast: for all is vanity.	For that which happens to the sons of men happens to animals. Even one thing happens to them. As the one dies, so the other dies. Yes, they have all one breath; and man has no advantage over the animals: for all is vanity.	For an event is to the sons of man, and an event is to the beasts, even one event is to them; as the death of this, so is the death of that; and one spirit is to all, and the advantage of man above the beast is nothing, for the whole is vanity.	For that which befalls the sons of men befalls beasts; even one thing befalls them: as the one dies, so dies the other; yes, they have all one breath; so that a man has no preeminence above a beast: for all is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 3:20	All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.	All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.	And all things go to one place: of earth they were made, and into earth they return together. 	All go unto one place: all are of the dust, and all return to dust.	All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.	All go to one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.	All go to one place. All are from the dust, and all turn to dust again.	The whole are going unto one place, the whole have been from the dust, and the whole are turning back unto the dust.	All go to one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.	
Ecclesiastes 3:21	Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?	Who knoweth the spirit of man, whether it goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast, whether it goeth downward to the earth?	Who knoweth if the spirit of the children of Adam ascend upward, and if the spirit of the beasts descend downward? 	Who knoweth the spirit of the children of men? Doth it go upwards? and the spirit of the beasts, doth it go downwards to the earth?	Who knoweth the spirit of man whether it goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast whether it goeth downward to the earth?	Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?	Who knows the spirit of man, whether it goes upward, and the spirit of the animal, whether it goes downward to the earth?|	Who knoweth the spirit of the sons of man that is going up on high, and the spirit of the beast that is going down below to the earth?	Who knows the spirit of man that goes upward, and the spirit of the beast that goes downward to the earth?	
Ecclesiastes 3:22	Wherefore I perceive that <i>there is</i> nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his own works; for that <i>is</i> his portion: for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?	Wherefore I saw that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him back to see what shall be after him?	And I have found that nothing is better than for a man to rejoice in his work, and that this is his portion. For who shall bring him to know the things that shall be after him? 	And I have seen that there is nothing better than that man should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion; for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?	Wherefore I saw that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him back to see what shall be after him?	Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?	Therefore I saw that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion: for who can bring him to see what will be after him?	And I have seen that there is nothing better than that man rejoice in his works, for it is his portion; for who doth bring him in to look on that which is after him?	Why I perceive that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?	
Ecclesiastes 4:1	So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of <i>such as were</i> oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors <i>there was</i> power; but they had no comforter.	Then I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and, behold, the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.	I turned myself to other things, and I saw the oppressions that are done under the sun, and the tears of the innocent, and they had no comforter; and they were not able to resist their violence, being destitute of help from any. 	And I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold, the tears of the oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors was power, and they had no comforter.	Then I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold, the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power, but they had no comforter.	So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.	Then I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold, the tears of those who were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.	And I have turned, and I see all the oppressions that are done under the sun, and lo, the tear of the oppressed, and they have no comforter; and at the hand of their oppressors is power, and they have no comforter.	So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.	
Ecclesiastes 4:2	Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive.	Wherefore I praised the dead that have been long dead more than the living that are yet alive;	And I praised the dead rather than the living: 	Then I praised the dead who are already dead more than the living who are yet alive;	Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive;	Wherefore I praised the dead who are already dead more than the living who are yet alive.	Therefore I praised the dead who have been long dead more than the living who are yet alive.	And I am praising the dead who have already died above the living who are yet alive.	Why I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive.	
Ecclesiastes 4:3	Yea, better <i>is he</i> than both they, which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	yea, better than them both did I esteem him that hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	And I judged him happier than them both, that is not yet born, nor hath seen the evils that are done under the sun. 	and more fortunate than both is he who hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	yea, better than them both did I esteem him which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	Yes, better is he than both they, who hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	Yes, better than them both is him who has not yet been, who has not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	And better than both of them is he who hath not yet been, in that he hath not seen the evil work that hath been done under the sun.	Yes, better is he than both they, which has not yet been, who has not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 4:4	Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This <i>is</i> also vanity and vexation of spirit.	Then I saw all labor and every skilful work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.	Again I considered all the labours of men, and I remarked that their industries are exposed to the envy of their neighhour: so in this also there is vanity, and fruitless care. 	And I saw all labour, and all success of work, that it is man's jealousy of his neighbour. This also is vanity and pursuit of the wind.	Then I saw all labour and every skilful work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.	Again, I considered all labor, and every right work, that for this a man is envied by his neighbor. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit.	Then I saw all the labor and achievement that is the envy of a man's neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.	And I have seen all the labour, and all the benefit of the work, because for it a man is the envy of his neighbour. Even this is vanity and vexation of spirit.	Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbor. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 4:5	The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.	The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.	The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh, saying: 	The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.	The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.	The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.	The fool folds his hands together and ruins himself.	The fool is clasping his hands, and eating his own flesh:	The fool folds his hands together, and eats his own flesh.	
Ecclesiastes 4:6	Better <i>is</i> an handful <i>with</i> quietness, than both the hands full <i>with</i> travail and vexation of spirit.	Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and striving after wind.	Better is a handful with rest, than both hands full with labour, and vexation of mind. 	Better is a handful with quietness, than both hands full with labour and pursuit of the wind.	Better is an handful with quietness, than two handfuls with labour and striving after wind.	Better is a handful with quietness, than both the hands full with toil and vexation of spirit.	Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and chasing after wind.	Better is a handful with quietness, than two handfuls with labour and vexation of spirit.'	Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 4:7	Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.	Then I returned and saw vanity under the sun.	Considering I found also another vanity under the sun: 	And I returned and saw vanity under the sun.	Then I returned and saw vanity under the sun.	Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.	Then I returned and saw vanity under the sun.	And I have turned, and I see a vain thing under the sun:	Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 4:8	There is one <i>alone</i>, and <i>there is</i> not a second; yea, he hath neither child nor brother: yet <i>is there</i> no end of all his labour; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither <i>saith he</i>, For whom do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This <i>is</i> also vanity, yea, it <i>is</i> a sore travail.	There is one that is alone, and he hath not a second; yea, he hath neither son nor brother; yet is there no end of all his labor, neither are his eyes satisfied with riches. For whom then,'saith he , do I labor, and deprive my soul of good? This also is vanity, yea, it is a sore travail.	There is but one, and he hath not a second, no child, no brother, and yet he ceaseth not to labour, neither are his eyes satisfied with riches, neither doth he reflect, saying: For whom do I labour, and defraud my soul of good things? in this also is vanity, and a grievous vexation. 	There is one alone and without a second; also he hath neither son nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour, neither is his eye satisfied with riches, and he saith not, For whom then am I labouring, and depriving my soul of good? This also is vanity and a grievous occupation.	There is one that is alone, and he hath not a second; yea, he hath neither son nor brother; yet is there no end of all his labour, neither are his eyes satisfied with riches. For whom then, saith he, do I labour, and deprive my soul of good? This also is vanity, yea, it is a sore travail.	There is one alone, and there is not a second; yes, he hath neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labor; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom do I labor, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yes, it is a grievous labor.	There is one who is alone, and he has neither son nor brother. There is no end to all of his labor, neither are his eyes satisfied with wealth. |For whom then, do I labor, and deprive my soul of enjoyment?| This also is vanity. Yes, it is a miserable business.	There is one, and there is not a second; even son or brother he hath not, and there is no end to all his labour! His eye also is not satisfied with riches, and he saith not, 'For whom am I labouring and bereaving my soul of good?' This also is vanity, it is a sad travail.	There is one alone, and there is not a second; yes, he has neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labor; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither said he, For whom do I labor, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yes, it is a sore travail.	
Ecclesiastes 4:9	Two <i>are</i> better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.	Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor.	It is better therefore that two should be together, than one: for they have the advantage of their society: 	Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.	Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.	Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labor.	Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor.	The two are better than the one, in that they have a good reward by their labour.	Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labor.	
Ecclesiastes 4:10	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him <i>that is</i> alone when he falleth; for <i>he hath</i> not another to help him up.	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him that is alone when he falleth, and hath not another to lift him up.	If one fall he shall be supported by the other: woe to him that is alone, for when he falleth, he hath none to lift him up. 	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him that is alone when he falleth, and who hath not another to lift him up!	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth, and hath not another to lift him up.	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him to rise.	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him who is alone when he falls, and doesn't have another to lift him up.	For if they fall, the one raiseth up his companion, but woe to the one who falleth and there is not a second to raise him up!	For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falls; for he has not another to help him up.	
Ecclesiastes 4:11	Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm <i>alone</i>?	Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one be warm alone ?	And if two lie together, they shall warm one another: how shall one alone be warmed? 	Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one alone be warm?	Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth: but how can one be warm alone?	Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone?	Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one keep warm alone?	Also, if two lie down, then they have heat, but how hath one heat?	Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone?	
Ecclesiastes 4:12	And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	And if a man prevail against him that is alone, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	And if a man prevail against one, two shall withstand him: a threefold cord is not easily broken. 	And if a man overpower the one, the two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	And if a man prevail against him that is alone, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	And if one prevaileth against him, two shall withstand him; and a three-fold cord is not quickly broken.	If a man prevails against one who is alone, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	And if the one strengthen himself, the two stand against him; and the threefold cord is not hastily broken.	And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.	
Ecclesiastes 4:13	Better <i>is</i> a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished.	Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who knoweth not how to receive admonition any more.	Better is a child that is poor and wise, than a king that is old and foolish, who knoweth not to foresee for hereafter. 	Better is a poor but wise youth than an old and foolish king, who knoweth no more how to be admonished.	Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who knoweth not how to receive admonition any more.	Better is a poor and a wise child, than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished.	Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who doesn't know how to receive admonition any more.	Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who hath not known to be warned any more.	Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished.	
Ecclesiastes 4:14	For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also <i>he that is</i> born in his kingdom becometh poor.	For out of prison he came forth to be king; yea, even in his kingdom he was born poor.	Because out of prison and chains sometimes a man cometh forth to a kingdom: and another born king is consumed with poverty. 	For out of the prison-house he came forth to reign, although he was born poor in his kingdom.	For out of prison he came forth to be king; yea, even in his kingdom he was born poor.	For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor.	For out of prison he came forth to be king; yes, even in his kingdom he was born poor.	For from a house of prisoners he hath come out to reign, for even in his own kingdom he hath been poor.	For out of prison he comes to reign; whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becomes poor.	
Ecclesiastes 4:15	I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead.	I saw all the living that walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the second, that stood up in his stead.	I saw all men living, that walk under the sun with the second young man, who shall rise up in his place. 	I saw all the living that walk under the sun, with the child, the second, that should stand up in his stead.	I saw all the living which walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the second, that stood up in his stead.	I considered all the living who walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead.	I saw all the living who walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the other, who succeeded him.	I have seen all the living, who are walking under the sun, with the second youth who doth stand in his place;	I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead.	
Ecclesiastes 4:16	<i>There is</i> no end of all the people, <i>even</i> of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also <i>is</i> vanity and vexation of spirit.	There was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was: yet they that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	The number of the people, of all that were before him is infinite: and they that shall come afterwards, shall not rejoice in him: but this also is vanity, and vexation of spirit. 	There is no end of all the people, of all that stood before them; those however that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after the wind.	There was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was: yet they that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.	There was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was&#8212;yet those who come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a chasing after wind.	there is no end to all the people, to all who were before them; also, the latter rejoice not in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.	There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 5:1	Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider not that they do evil.	Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God; for to draw nigh to hear is better than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they know not that they do evil.	Keep thy foot, when thou goest into the house of God, and draw nigh to hear. For much better is obedience, than the victims of fools, who know not what evil they do. 	Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and draw near to hear, rather than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they know not that they do evil.	Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God; for to draw nigh to hear is better than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they know not that they do evil.	Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider not that they do evil.	Guard your steps when you go to God's house; for to draw near to listen is better than to give the sacrifice of fools, for they don't know that they do evil.	Keep thy feet when thou goest unto a house of God, and draw near to hear rather than to give of fools the sacrifice, for they do not know they do evil.	Keep your foot when you go to the house of God, and be more ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider not that they do evil.	
Ecclesiastes 5:2	Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter <i>any</i> thing before God: for God <i>is</i> in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few.	Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thy heart be hasty to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few.	Speak not any thing rashly, and let not thy heart be hasty to utter a word before God. For God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few. 	Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thy heart be hasty to utter anything before God: for God is in the heavens, and thou upon earth; therefore let thy words be few.	Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter any thing before God; for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few.	Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thy heart be hasty to utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few.	Don't be rash with your mouth, and don't let your heart be hasty to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven, and you on earth. Therefore let your words be few.	Cause not thy mouth to hasten, and let not thy heart hasten to bring out a word before God, for God is in the heavens, and thou on the earth, therefore let thy words be few.	Be not rash with your mouth, and let not your heart be hasty to utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and you on earth: therefore let your words be few.	
Ecclesiastes 5:3	For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool's voice <i>is known</i> by multitude of words.	For a dream cometh with a multitude of business, and a fool's voice with a multitude of words.	Dreams follow many cares: and in many words shall be found folly. 	For a dream cometh through the multitude of business, and a fool's voice through a multitude of words.	For a dream cometh with a multitude of business; and a fool's voice with a multitude of words.	For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool's voice is known by a multitude of words.	For as a dream comes with a multitude of cares, so a fool's speech with a multitude of words.	For the dream hath come by abundance of business, and the voice of a fool by abundance of words.	For a dream comes through the multitude of business; and a fool's voice is known by multitude of words.	
Ecclesiastes 5:4	When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for <i>he hath</i> no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.	When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou vowest.	If thou hast vowed any thing to God, defer not to pay it: for an unfaithful and foolish promise displeaseth him: but whatsoever thou hast vowed, pay it. 	When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.	When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou vowest.	When thou vowest a vow to God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.	When you vow a vow to God, don't defer to pay it; for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay that which you vow.	When thou vowest a vow to God, delay not to complete it, for there is no pleasure in fools; that which thou vowest &#8212; complete.	When you vow a vow to God, defer not to pay it; for he has no pleasure in fools: pay that which you have vowed.	
Ecclesiastes 5:5	Better <i>is it</i> that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.	Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.	And it is much better not to vow, than after a vow not to perform the things promised. 	Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.	Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.	Better is it that thou shouldst not vow, than that thou shouldst vow and not pay.	It is better that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay.	Better that thou do not vow, than that thou dost vow and dost not complete.	Better is it that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay.	
Ecclesiastes 5:6	Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it <i>was</i> an error: wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?	Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that is was an error: wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thy hands?	Give not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin: and say not before the angel: There is no providence: lest God be angry at thy words, and destroy all the works of thy hands. 	Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an inadvertence. Wherefore should God be wroth at thy voice, and destroy the work of thy hands?	Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?	Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an error: why should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thy hands?	Don't allow your mouth to lead you into sin. Don't protest before the messenger that this was a mistake. Why should God be angry at your voice, and destroy the work of your hands?	Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin, nor say before the messenger, that 'it is an error,' why is God wroth because of thy voice, and hath destroyed the work of thy hands?	Suffer not your mouth to cause your flesh to sin; neither say you before the angel, that it was an error: why should God be angry at your voice, and destroy the work of your hands?	
Ecclesiastes 5:7	For in the multitude of dreams and many words <i>there are</i> also <i>divers</i> vanities: but fear thou God.	For in the multitude of dreams there are vanities, and in many words: but fear thou God.	Where there are many dreams, there are many vanities, and words without number: but do thou fear God. 	For in the multitude of dreams are vanities; so with many words: but fear God.	For thus it cometh to pass through the multitude of dreams and vanities and many words: but fear thou God.	For in the multitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: but fear thou God.	For in the multitude of dreams there are vanities, as well as in many words: but you must fear God.	For, in the abundance of dreams both vanities and words abound; but fear thou God.	For in the multitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: but fear you God.	
Ecclesiastes 5:8	If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for <i>he that is</i> higher than the highest regardeth; and <i>there be</i> higher than they.	If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a province, marvel not at the matter: for one higher than the high regardeth; and there are higher than they.	If thou shalt see the oppressions of the poor, and violent judgments, and justice perverted in the province, wonder not at this matter: for he that is high hath another higher, and there are others still higher than these: 	If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter; for a higher than the high is watching, and there are higher than they.	If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and the violent taking away of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for one higher than the high regardeth; and there be higher than they.	If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perversion of judgment and justice in a province, wonder not at the matter: for he that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there are higher than they.	If you see the oppression of the poor, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a district, don't marvel at the matter: for one official is eyed by a higher one; and there are officials over them.	If oppression of the poor, and violent taking away of judgment and righteousness thou seest in a province, do not marvel at the matter, for a higher than the high is observing, and high ones are over them.	If you see the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for he that is higher than the highest regards; and there be higher than they.	
Ecclesiastes 5:9	Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king <i>himself</i> is served by the field.	Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is served by the field.	Moreover there is the king that reigneth over all the land subject to him. 	Moreover the earth is every way profitable: the king himself is dependent upon the field.	Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is served by the field.	Moreover, the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is served by the field.	Moreover the profit of the earth is for all. The king profits from the field.	And the abundance of a land is for all. A king for a field is served.	Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is served by the field.	
Ecclesiastes 5:10	He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this <i>is</i> also vanity.	He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance, with increase: this also is vanity.	A covetous man shall not be satisfied with money: and he that loveth riches shall reap no fruit from them: so this also is vanity. 	He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This also is vanity.	He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this also is vanity.	He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.	He who loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he who loves abundance, with increase: this also is vanity.	Whoso is loving silver is not satisfied with silver, nor he who is in love with stores with increase. Even this is vanity.	He that loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loves abundance with increase: this is also vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 5:11	When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what good <i>is there</i> to the owners thereof, saving the beholding <i>of them</i> with their eyes?	When goods increase, they are increased that eat them; and what advantage is there to the owner thereof, save the beholding of them with his eyes?	Where there are great riches, there are also many to eat them. And what doth it profit the owner, but that he seeth the riches with his eyes? 	When goods increase, they are increased that eat them; and what profit is there to the owner thereof, except the beholding of them with his eyes?	When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what advantage is there to the owner thereof, saving the beholding of them with his eyes?	When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what good is there to the owners of them, saving the beholding of them with their eyes?	When goods increase, those who eat them are increased; and what advantage is there to its owner, except to feast on them with his eyes?	In the multiplying of good have its consumers been multiplied, and what benefit is to its possessor except the sight of his eyes?	When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with their eyes?	
Ecclesiastes 5:12	The sleep of a labouring man <i>is</i> sweet, whether he eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.	The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much; but the fulness of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.	Sleep is sweet to a labouring man, whether he eat lttle or much: but the fulness of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. 	The sleep of the labourer is sweet, whether he have eaten little or much; but the fulness of the rich doth not suffer him to sleep.	The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much: but the fulness of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.	The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eateth little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.	The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much; but the abundance of the rich will not allow him to sleep.	Sweet is the sleep of the labourer whether he eat little or much; and the sufficiency of the wealthy is not suffering him to sleep.	The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.	
Ecclesiastes 5:13	There is a sore evil <i>which</i> I have seen under the sun, <i>namely</i>, riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.	There is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun, namely , riches kept by the owner thereof to his hurt:	There is also another grievous evil, which I have seen under the sun: riches kept to the hurt of the owner. 	There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun: riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt;	There is a grievous evil, which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept by the owner thereof to his hurt:	There is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept for the owners of them to their hurt.	There is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun: wealth kept by its owner to his harm.	There is a painful evil I have seen under the sun: wealth kept for its possessor, for his evil.	There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.	
Ecclesiastes 5:14	But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son, and <i>there is</i> nothing in his hand.	and those riches perish by evil adventure; and if he hath begotten a son, there is nothing in his hand.	For they are lost with very great affliction: he hath begotten a son, who shall be in extremity of want. 	or those riches perish by some evil circumstance, and if he have begotten a son, there is nothing in his hand.	and those riches perish by evil adventure; and if he hath begotten a son, there is nothing in his hand.	But those riches perish by evil labor: and he begetteth a son, and there is nothing in his hand.	Those riches perish by misfortune, and if he has fathered a son, there is nothing in his hand.	And that wealth hath been lost in an evil business, and he hath begotten a son and there is nothing in his hand!	But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begets a son, and there is nothing in his hand.	
Ecclesiastes 5:15	As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may carry away in his hand.	As he came forth from his mother's womb, naked shall he go again as he came, and shall take nothing for his labor, which he may carry away in his hand.	As he came forth naked from his mother's womb, so shall he return, and shall take nothing away with him of his labour. 	As he came forth from his mother's womb, naked shall he go away again as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may carry away in his hand.	As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he go again as he came, and shall take nothing for his labour, which he may carry away in his hand.	As he came into the world, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor, which he may carry away in his hand.	As he came forth from his mother's womb, naked shall he go again as he came, and shall take nothing for his labor, which he may carry away in his hand.	As he came out from the belly of his mother, naked he turneth back to go as he came, and he taketh not away anything of his labour, that doth go in his hand.	As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor, which he may carry away in his hand.	
Ecclesiastes 5:16	And this also <i>is</i> a sore evil, <i>that</i> in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind?	And this also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit hath he that he laboreth for the wind?	A most deplorable evil: as he came, so shall he return. What then doth it profit him that he hath laboured for the wind? 	And this also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came so doth he go away, and what profit hath he, in having laboured for the wind?	And this also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit hath he that he laboureth for the wind?	And this also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit hath he that hath labored for the wind?	This also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go. And what profit does he have who labors for the wind?	And this also is a painful evil, just as he came, so he goeth, and what advantage is to him who laboureth for wind?	And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit has he that has labored for the wind?	
Ecclesiastes 5:17	All his days also he eateth in darkness, and <i>he hath</i> much sorrow and wrath with his sickness.	All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he is sore vexed, and hath sickness and wrath.	All the days of his life he eateth in darkness, and in many cares, and in misery, and sorrow. 	All his days also he eateth in darkness, and hath much vexation, and sickness, and irritation.	All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he is sore vexed and hath sickness and wrath.	All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow and wrath with his sickness.	All his days he also eats in darkness, he is frustrated, and has sickness and wrath.	Also all his days in darkness he consumeth, and sadness, and wrath, and sickness abound.	All his days also he eats in darkness, and he has much sorrow and wrath with his sickness.	
Ecclesiastes 5:18	Behold <i>that</i> which I have seen: <i>it is</i> good and comely <i>for one</i> to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that he taketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him: for it <i>is</i> his portion.	Behold, that which I have seen to be good and to be comely is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy good in all his labor, wherein he laboreth under the sun, all the days of his life which God hath given him: for this is his portion.	This therefore hath seemed good to me, that a man should eat and drink, and enjoy the fruit of his labour, wherewith he hath laboured under the sun, all the days of his life, which God hath given him: and this is his portion. 	Behold what I have seen good and comely: it is to eat and to drink, and to enjoy good in all his labour wherewith man laboureth under the sun, all the days of his life which God hath given him: for that is his portion.	Behold, that which I have seen to be good and to be comely is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy good in all his labour, wherein he laboureth under the sun, all the days of his life which God hath given him: for this is his portion.	Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labor that he taketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him: for it is his portion.	Behold, that which I have seen to be good and proper is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy good in all his labor, in which he labors under the sun, all the days of his life which God has given him; for this is his portion.	Lo, that which I have seen: It is good, because beautiful, to eat, and to drink, and to see good in all one's labour that he laboureth at under the sun, the number of the days of his life that God hath given to him, for it is his portion.	Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labor that he takes under the sun all the days of his life, which God gives him: for it is his portion.	
Ecclesiastes 5:19	Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labour; this <i>is</i> the gift of God.	Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor-this is the gift of God.	And every man to whom God hath given riches, and substance, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to enjoy his portion, and to rejoice of his labour: this is the gift of God. 	Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and power to eat thereof, and to take his portion and to rejoice in his labour: that is a gift of God.	Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God.	Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat of it, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor; this is the gift of God.	Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat of it, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor&#8212;this is the gift of God.	Every man also to whom God hath given wealth and riches, and hath given him power to eat of it, and to accept his portion, and to rejoice in his labour, this is a gift of God.	Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor; this is the gift of God.	
Ecclesiastes 5:20	For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth <i>him</i> in the joy of his heart.	For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth him in the joy of his heart.	For he shall not much remember the days of his life, because God entertaineth his heart with delight, 	For he will not much remember the days of his life, because God answereth him with the joy of his heart.	For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth him in the joy of his heart.	For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth him in the joy of his heart.	For he shall not often reflect on the days of his life; because God occupies him with the joy of his heart.	For he doth not much remember the days of his life, for God is answering through the joy of his heart.	For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answers him in the joy of his heart.	
Ecclesiastes 6:1	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it <i>is</i> common among men:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is heavy upon men:	There is also another evil, which I have seen under the sun, and that frequent among men: 	There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, and it is frequent among men:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is heavy upon men:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common among men:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is heavy on men:	There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, and it is great on man:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common among men:	
Ecclesiastes 6:2	A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honour, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it: this <i>is</i> vanity, and it <i>is</i> an evil disease.	a man to whom God giveth riches, wealth, and honor, so that he lacketh nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but an alien eateth it; this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.	A man to whom God hath given riches, and substance, and honour, and his soul wanteth nothing of all that he desireth: yet God doth not give him power to eat thereof, but a stranger shall eat it up. This is vanity and a great misery. 	one to whom God giveth riches, wealth, and honour, and he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it: this is vanity, and a sore evil.	a man to whom God giveth riches, wealth, and honour, so that he lacketh nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it; this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.	A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honor, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat of it, but a stranger eateth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.	a man to whom God gives riches, wealth, and honor, so that he lacks nothing for his soul of all that he desires, yet God gives him no power to eat of it, but an alien eats it. This is vanity, and it is an evil disease.	A man to whom God giveth wealth, and riches, and honour, and there is no lack to his soul of all that he desireth, and God giveth him not power to eat of it, but a stranger eateth it; this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.	A man to whom God has given riches, wealth, and honor, so that he wants nothing for his soul of all that he desires, yet God gives him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eats it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.	
Ecclesiastes 6:3	If a man beget an hundred <i>children</i>, and live many years, so that the days of his years be many, and his soul be not filled with good, and also <i>that</i> he have no burial; I say, <i>that</i> an untimely birth <i>is</i> better than he.	If a man beget a hundred children, and live many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul be not filled with good, and moreover he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he:	If a man beget a hundred children, and live many years, and attain to a great age, and his soul make no use of the goods of his substance, and he be without burial: of this man I pronounce, that the untimely born is better than he. 	If a man beget a hundred sons, and live many years, so that the days of his years be many, but his soul be not filled with good, and also he have no burial, I say an untimely birth is better than he.	If a man beget an hundred children and live many years, so that the days of his years be many, but his soul be not filled with good, and moreover he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he:	If a man begetteth a hundred children, and liveth many years, so that the days of his years are many, and his soul is not filled with good, and also that he hath no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he.	If a man fathers a hundred children, and lives many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul is not filled with good, and moreover he has no burial; I say, that a stillborn child is better than he:	If a man doth beget a hundred, and live many years, and is great, because they are the days of his years, and his soul is not satisfied from the goodness, and also he hath not had a grave, I have said, 'Better than he is the untimely birth.'	If a man beget an hundred children, and live many years, so that the days of his years be many, and his soul be not filled with good, and also that he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he.	
Ecclesiastes 6:4	For he cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness.	for it cometh in vanity, and departeth in darkness, and the name thereof is covered with darkness;	For he came in vain, and goeth to darkness, and his name shall be wholly forgotten. 	For it cometh in vanity, and departeth in darkness, and its name is covered with darkness;	for it cometh in vanity, and departeth in darkness, and the name thereof is covered with darkness;	For he cometh with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness.	for it comes in vanity, and departs in darkness, and its name is covered with darkness.	For in vanity he came in, and in darkness he goeth, and in darkness his name is covered,	For he comes in with vanity, and departs in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness.	
Ecclesiastes 6:5	Moreover he hath not seen the sun, nor known <i>any thing</i>: this hath more rest than the other.	moreover it hath not seen the sun nor known it; this hath rest rather than the other:	He hath not seen the sun, nor known the distance of good and evil: 	moreover it hath not seen nor known the sun: this hath rest rather than the other.	moreover it hath not seen the sun nor known it; this hath rest rather than the other:	Moreover he hath not seen the sun, nor known any thing: this hath more rest than the other.	Moreover it has not seen the sun nor known it. This has rest rather than the other.	Even the sun he hath not seen nor known, more rest hath this than that.	Moreover he has not seen the sun, nor known any thing: this has more rest than the other.	
Ecclesiastes 6:6	Yea, though he live a thousand years twice <i>told</i>, yet hath he seen no good: do not all go to one place?	yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, and yet enjoy no good, do not all go to one place?	Although he lived two thousand years, and hath not enjoyed good things: do not all make haste to one place? 	Yea, though he live twice a thousand years, yet hath he seen no good: do not all go to one place?                             	yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, and yet enjoy no good: do not all go to one place?	Yes, though he liveth a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen no good: do not all go to one place?	Yes, though he live a thousand years twice told, and yet fails to enjoy good, don't all go to one place?	And though he had lived a thousand years twice over, yet good he hath not seen; to the same place doth not every one go?	Yes, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet has he seen no good: do not all go to one place?	
Ecclesiastes 6:7	All the labour of man <i>is</i> for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	All the labour of man is for his mouth, but his soul shall not be filled. 	All the labour of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	All the labour of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	All the labour of man is for his mouth, and yet the soul is not filled.	All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.	
Ecclesiastes 6:8	For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor, that knoweth to walk before the living?	For what advantage hath the wise more than the fool? or what hath the poor man, that knoweth how to walk before the living?	What hath the wise man more than the fool? and what the poor man, but to go thither, where there is life? 	For what advantage hath the wise above the fool? what hath the poor, that knoweth to walk before the living?	For what advantage hath the wise more than the fool? or what hath the poor man, that knoweth to walk before the living?	For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor, that knoweth to walk before the living?	For what advantage has the wise more than the fool? What has the poor man, that knows how to walk before the living?	For what advantage is to the wise above the fool? What to the poor who knoweth to walk before the living?	For what has the wise more than the fool? what has the poor, that knows to walk before the living?	
Ecclesiastes 6:9	Better <i>is</i> the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this <i>is</i> also vanity and vexation of spirit.	Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	Better it is to see what thou mayst desire, than to desire that which thou canst not know. But this also is vanity, and presumption of spirit. 	Better is the seeing of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this also is vanity and pursuit of the wind.	Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this also is vanity and a striving after wind.	Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity and vexation of spirit.	Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.	Better is the sight of the eyes than the going of the soul. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit.	Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity and vexation of spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 6:10	That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it <i>is</i> man: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.	Whatsoever hath been, the name thereof was given long ago; and it is know what man is; neither can he contend with him that is mightier than he.	He that shall be, his name is already called: and it is known, that he is man, and cannot contend in judgment with him that is stronger than himself. 	That which is hath already been named; and what man is, is known, and that he cannot contend with him that is mightier than he.	Whatsoever hath been, the name thereof was given long ago, and it is known that it is man: neither can he contend with him that is mightier than he.	That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it is man: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.	Whatever has been, its name was given long ago; and it is known what man is; neither can he contend with him who is mightier than he.	What is that which hath been? already is its name called, and it is known that it is man, and he is not able to contend with him who is stronger than he.	That which has been is named already, and it is known that it is man: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.	
Ecclesiastes 6:11	Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what <i>is</i> man the better?	Seeing there are many things that increase vanity, what is man the better?	There are many words that have much vanity in disputing. 	For there are many things that increase vanity: what is man advantaged?	Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the better?	Seeing there are many things that increase vanity, what is man the better?	For there are many words that create vanity. What does that profit man?	For there are many things multiplying vanity; what advantage is to man?	Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the better?	
Ecclesiastes 6:12	For who knoweth what <i>is</i> good for man in <i>this</i> life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?	For who knoweth what is good for man in his life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?	What needeth a man to seek things that are above him, whereas he knoweth not what is profitable for him in his life, in all the days of his pilgrimage, and the time that passeth like a shadow? Or who can tell him what shall be after him under the sun? 	For who knoweth what is good for man in life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell man what shall be after him under the sun?	For who knoweth what is good for man in his life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?	For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?	For who knows what is good for man in life, all the days of his vain life which he spends like a shadow? For who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun?	For who knoweth what is good for a man in life, the number of the days of the life of his vanity, and he maketh them as a shadow? for who declareth to man what is after him under the sun?	For who knows what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life which he spends as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?	
Ecclesiastes 7:1	A good name <i>is</i> better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.	A good name is better than precious oil; and the day of death, than the day of one's birth.	A good name is better than precious ointments: and the day of death than the day of one's birth. 	A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth.	A GOOD name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.	A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.	A good name is better than fine perfume; and the day of death better than the day of one's birth.	Better is a name than good perfume, And the day of death than the day of birth.	A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.	
Ecclesiastes 7:2	<i>It is</i> better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that <i>is</i> the end of all men; and the living will lay <i>it</i> to his heart.	It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.	It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to the house of feasting: for in that we are put in mind of the end of all, and the living thinketh what is to come. 	It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: in that that is the end of all men, and the living taketh it to heart.	It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.	It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.	It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men, and the living should take this to heart.	Better to go unto a house of mourning, Than to go unto a house of banqueting, For that is the end of all men, And the living layeth it unto his heart.	It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.	
Ecclesiastes 7:3	Sorrow <i>is</i> better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.	Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made glad.	Anger is better than laughter: because by the sadness of the countenance the mind of the offender is corrected. 	Vexation is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.	Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made glad.	Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.	Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the face the heart is made good.	Better is sorrow than laughter, For by the sadness of the face the heart becometh better.	Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.	
Ecclesiastes 7:4	The heart of the wise <i>is</i> in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools <i>is</i> in the house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is where there is mourning, and the heart of fools where there is mirth. 	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools in the house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is in a house of mourning, And the heart of fools in a house of mirth.	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.	
Ecclesiastes 7:5	<i>It is</i> better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.	It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.	It is better to be rebuked by a wise man, than to be deceived by the flattery of fools. 	It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise, than to hear the song of fools.	It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.	It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.	It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.	Better to hear a rebuke of a wise man, Than for a man to hear a song of fools,	It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.	
Ecclesiastes 7:6	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so <i>is</i> the laughter of the fool: this also <i>is</i> vanity.	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.	For as the crackling of thorns burning under a pot, so is the laughter of a fool: now this also is vanity. 	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity.	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity.	For as the noise of thorns under the pot, So is the laughter of a fool, even this is vanity.	For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 7:7	Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the heart.	Surely extortion maketh the wise man foolish; and a bribe destroyeth the understanding.	Oppression troubleth the wise, and shall destroy the strength of his heart. 	Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart.	Surely extortion maketh a wise man foolish; and a gift destroyeth the understanding.	Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the heart.	Surely extortion makes the wise man foolish; and a bribe destroys the understanding.	Surely oppression maketh the wise mad, And a gift destroyeth the heart.	Surely oppression makes a wise man mad; and a gift destroys the heart.	
Ecclesiastes 7:8	Better <i>is</i> the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: <i>and</i> the patient in spirit <i>is</i> better than the proud in spirit.	Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof; and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.	Better is the end of a speech than the beginning. Better is the patient man than the presumptuous. 	Better is the end of a thing than its beginning; better is a patient spirit than a proud spirit.	Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.	Better is the end of a thing than its beginning: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.	Better is the end of a thing than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.	Better is the latter end of a thing than its beginning, Better is the patient of spirit, than the haughty of spirit.	Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.	
Ecclesiastes 7:9	Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.	Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry; for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.	Be not quickly angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of a fool. 	Be not hasty in thy spirit to be vexed; for vexation resteth in the bosom of fools.	Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.	Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.	Don't be hasty in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools.	Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, For anger in the bosom of fools resteth.	Be not hasty in your spirit to be angry: for anger rests in the bosom of fools.	
Ecclesiastes 7:10	Say not thou, What is <i>the cause</i> that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.	Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.	Say not: What thinkest thou is the cause that former times were better than they are now? for this manner of question is foolish. 	Say not, How is it that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.	Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.	Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.	Don't say, |Why were the former days better than these?| For you do not ask wisely about this.	Say not thou, 'What was it, That the former days were better than these?' For thou hast not asked wisely of this.	Say not you, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for you do not inquire wisely concerning this.	
Ecclesiastes 7:11	Wisdom <i>is</i> good with an inheritance: and <i>by it there is</i> profit to them that see the sun.	Wisdom is as good as an inheritance; yea, more excellent is it for them that see the sun.	Wisdom with riches is more profitable, and bringeth more advantage to them that see the sun. 	Wisdom is as good as an inheritance, and profitable to them that see the sun.	Wisdom is as good as an inheritance: yea, more excellent is it for them that see the sun.	Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to them that see the sun.	Wisdom is as good as an inheritance. Yes, it is more excellent for those who see the sun.	Wisdom is good with an inheritance, And an advantage it is to those beholding the sun.	Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to them that see the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 7:12	For wisdom <i>is</i> a defence, <i>and</i> money <i>is</i> a defence: but the excellency of knowledge <i>is, that</i> wisdom giveth life to them that have it.	For wisdom is a defence, even as money is a defence; but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom preserveth the life of him that hath it.	For as wisdom is a defence, so money is a defence : but learning and wisdom excel in this, that they give life to him that possesseth them. 	For wisdom is a defence as money is a defence; but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom maketh them that possess it to live.	For wisdom is a defence, even as money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom preserveth the life of him that hath it.	For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense: but the excellence of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it.	For wisdom is a defense, even as money is a defense; but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.	For wisdom is a defense, money is a defence, And the advantage of the knowledge of wisdom is, She reviveth her possessors.	For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom gives life to them that have it.	
Ecclesiastes 7:13	Consider the work of God: for who can make <i>that</i> straight, which he hath made crooked?	Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?	Consider the works of God, that no man can correct whom he hath despised. 	Consider the work of God; for who can make straight what he hath made crooked?	Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?	Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?	Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight, which he has made crooked?	See the work of God, For who is able to make straight that which He made crooked?	Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he has made crooked?	
Ecclesiastes 7:14	In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.	In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yea, God hath made the one side by side with the other, to the end that man should not find out anything that shall be after him.	In the good day enjoy good things, and beware beforehand of the evil day: for God hath made both the one and the other, that man may not find against him any just complaint. 	In the day of prosperity enjoy good, and in the day of adversity consider: God hath also set the one beside the other, to the end that man should find out nothing of what shall be after him.	In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider: God hath even made the one side by side with the other, to the end that man should not find out any thing that shall be after him.	In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.	In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yes, God has made the one side by side with the other, to the end that man should not find out anything after him.	In a day of prosperity be in gladness, And in a day of evil consider. Also this over-against that hath God made, To the intent that man doth not find anything after him.	In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also has set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.	
Ecclesiastes 7:15	All <i>things</i> have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just <i>man</i> that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked <i>man</i> that prolongeth <i>his life</i> in his wickedness.	All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a righteous man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his evil-doing.	These things also I saw in the days of my vanity: A just man perisheth in his justice, and a wicked man liveth a long time in his wickedness. 	All this have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a righteous man that perisheth by his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his days by his wickedness.	All this have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a righteous man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his evil-doing.	All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness.	All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who lives long in his evildoing.	The whole I have considered in the days of my vanity. There is a righteous one perishing in his righteousness, and there is a wrong-doer prolonging himself in his wrong.	All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just man that perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongs his life in his wickedness.	
Ecclesiastes 7:16	Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself?	Be not righteous overmuch; neither make thyself overwise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself?	Be not over just: and be not more wise than is necessary, lest thou become stupid. 	Be not righteous overmuch; neither make thyself overwise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself?	Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself?	Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why shouldst thou destroy thyself?	Don't be overly righteous, neither make yourself overly wise. Why should you destroy yourself?	Be not over-righteous, nor show thyself too wise, why art thou desolate?	Be not righteous over much; neither make yourself over wise: why should you destroy yourself ?	
Ecclesiastes 7:17	Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?	Be not overmuch wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?	Be not overmuch wicked: and be not foolish, lest thou die before thy time. 	Be not overmuch wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?	Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?	Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldst thou die before thy time?	Don't be too wicked, neither be foolish. Why should you die before your time?	Do not much wrong, neither be thou a fool, why dost thou die within thy time?	Be not over much wicked, neither be you foolish: why should you die before your time?	
Ecclesiastes 7:18	<i>It is</i> good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from this withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all.	It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from that withdraw not thy hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth from them all.	It is good that thou shouldst hold up the just, yea and from him withdraw not thy hand: for he that feareth God, neglecteth nothing. 	It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from that withdraw not thy hand: for he that feareth God cometh forth from them all.	It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from that withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all.	It is good that thou shouldst take hold of this; yes, also from this withdraw not thy hand: for he that feareth God shall escape from them all.	It is good that you should take hold of this. Yes, also from that don't withdraw your hand; for he who fears God will come forth from them all.	It is good that thou dost lay hold on this, and also, from that withdrawest not thy hand, for whoso is fearing God goeth out with them all.	It is good that you should take hold of this; yes, also from this withdraw not your hand: for he that fears God shall come forth of them all.	
Ecclesiastes 7:19	Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty <i>men</i> which are in the city.	Wisdom is a strength to the wise man more than ten rulers that are in a city.	Wisdom hath strengthened the wise more than ten princes of the city. 	Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men that are in a city.	Wisdom is a strength to the wise man more than ten rulers which are in a city.	Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men who are in the city.	Wisdom is a strength to the wise man more than ten rulers who are in a city.	The wisdom giveth strength to a wise man, more than wealth the rulers who have been in a city.	Wisdom strengthens the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city.	
Ecclesiastes 7:20	For <i>there is</i> not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.	Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.	For there is no just man upon earth, that doth good, and sinneth not. 	Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth, that doeth good and sinneth not.	Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.	For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.	Surely there is not a righteous man on earth, who does good and doesn't sin.	Because there is not a righteous man on earth that doth good and sinneth not.	For there is not a just man on earth, that does good, and sins not.	
Ecclesiastes 7:21	Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hear thy servant curse thee:	Also take not heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee;	But do not apply thy heart to all words that are spoken: lest perhaps thou hear thy servant reviling thee. 	Also give not heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee.	Also take not heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hear thy servant curse thee:	Also take no heed to all words that are spoken; lest thou hear thy servant curse thee:	Also don't take heed to all words that are spoken, lest you hear your servant curse you;	Also to all the words that they speak give not thy heart, that thou hear not thy servant reviling thee.	Also take no heed to all words that are spoken; lest you hear your servant curse you:	
Ecclesiastes 7:22	For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.	for oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.	For thy conscience knoweth that thou also hast often spoken evil of others. 	For also thine own heart knoweth that oftentimes thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.	for oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.	For often also thy own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.	for often your own heart knows that you yourself have likewise cursed others.	For many times also hath thy heart known that thou thyself also hast reviled others.	For oftentimes also your own heart knows that you yourself likewise have cursed others.	
Ecclesiastes 7:23	All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it <i>was</i> far from me.	All this have I proved in wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.	I have tried all things in wisdom. I have said: I will be wise: and it departed farther from me, 	All this have I tried by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.	All this have I proved in wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.	All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.	All this have I proved in wisdom. I said, |I will be wise;| but it was far from me.	All this I have tried by wisdom; I have said, 'I am wise,' and it is far from me.	All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.	
Ecclesiastes 7:24	That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?	That which is, is far off and exceeding deep; who can find it out?	Much more than it was: it is a great depth, who shall find it out? 	Whatever hath been, is far off, and exceeding deep: who will find it out?	That which is is far off, and exceeding deep; who can find it out?	That which is far off, and exceedingly deep, who can find it out?	That which is, is far off and exceedingly deep. Who can find it out?	Far off is that which hath been, and deep, deep, who doth find it?	That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?	
Ecclesiastes 7:25	I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason <i>of things</i>, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness <i>and</i> madness:	I turned about, and my heart was set to know and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the reason of things , and to know that wickedness is folly, and that foolishness is madness.	I have surveyed all things with my mind, to know, and consider, and seek out wisdom and reason: and to know the wickedness of the fool, and the error of the imprudent: 	I turned, I and my heart, to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom and reason, and to know wickedness to be folly, and foolishness to be madness;	I turned about, and my heart was set to know and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the reason of things, and to know that wickedness is folly, and that foolishness is madness:	I applied my heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness:	I turned around, and my heart sought to know and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to know that wickedness is stupidity, and that foolishness is madness.	I have turned round, also my heart, to know and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and reason, and to know the wrong of folly, and of foolishness the madness.	I applied my heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness:	
Ecclesiastes 7:26	And I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart <i>is</i> snares and nets, <i>and</i> her hands <i>as</i> bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.	And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and whose hands are bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.	And I have found a woman more bitter than death, who is the hunter's snare, and her heart is a net, and her hands are bands. He that pleaseth God shall escape from her: but he that is a sinner, shall be caught by her. 	and I found more bitter than death the woman whose heart is nets and snares, and whose hands are bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be caught by her.	And I find a thing more bitter than death, even the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.	And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoever pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.	I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and traps, whose hands are chains. Whoever pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner will be ensnared by her.	And I am finding more bitter than death, the woman whose heart is nets and snares, her hands are bands; the good before God escapeth from her, but the sinner is captured by her.	And I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoever pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.	
Ecclesiastes 7:27	Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, <i>counting</i> one by one, to find out the account:	Behold, this have I found, saith the Preacher, laying one thing to another, to find out the account;	Lo this have I found, said Ecclesiastes, weighing one thing after another, that I might find out the account, 	See this which I have found, saith the Preacher, searching one by one to find out the reason;	Behold, this have I found, saith the Preacher; laying one thing to another, to find out the account:	Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account:	|Behold, I have found this,| says the Preacher, |one to another, to find out the scheme;	See, this I have found, said the Preacher, one to one, to find out the reason	Behold, this have I found, said the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account:	
Ecclesiastes 7:28	Which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.	which my soul still seeketh, but I have not found: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.	Which yet my soul seeketh, and I have not found it. One man among a thousand I have found, a woman among them all I have not found. 	which my soul yet seeketh, and I have not found: one man among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those have I not found.	which my soul still seeketh, but I have not found: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.	Which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.	which my soul still seeks; but I have not found. One man among a thousand have I found; but I have not found a woman among all those.	(that still my soul had sought, and I had not found), One man, a teacher, I have found, and a woman among all these I have not found.	Which yet my soul seeks, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.	
Ecclesiastes 7:29	Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.	Behold, this only have I found: that God made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.	Only this I have found, that God made man right, and he hath entangled himself with an infinity of questions. Who is as the wise man? and who hath known the resolution of the word? 	Only see this which I have found: that God made man upright, but they have sought out many devices.	Behold, this only have I found, that God made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.	Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.	Behold, this only have I found: that God made man upright; but they search for many schemes.|	See, this alone I have found, that God made man upright, and they &#8212; they have sought out many devices.	See, this only have I found, that God has made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.	
Ecclesiastes 8:1	Who <i>is</i> as the wise <i>man</i>? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? a man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed.	Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.	The wisdom of a man shineth in his countenance, and the most mighty will change his face. 	Who is as the wise? and who knoweth the explanation of things? A man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of his face is changed.	Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.	Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? a man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed.	Who is like the wise man? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom makes his face shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.	Who is as the wise? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? The wisdom of man causeth his face to shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.	Who is as the wise man? and who knows the interpretation of a thing?  a man's wisdom makes his face to shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed.	
Ecclesiastes 8:2	I <i>counsel thee</i> to keep the king's commandment, and <i>that</i> in regard of the oath of God.	I counsel thee , Keep the king's command, and that in regard of the oath of God.	I observe the mouth of the king, and the commandments of the oath of God. 	I say, Keep the king's commandment, and that on account of the oath of God.	I counsel thee, Keep the king's command, and that in regard of the oath of God.	I counsel thee to keep the king's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God.	I say, |Keep the king's command!| because of the oath to God.	I pray thee, the commandment of a king keep, even for the sake of the oath of God.	I counsel you to keep the king's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God.	
Ecclesiastes 8:3	Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing; for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.	Be not hasty to go out of his presence; persist not in an evil thing: for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.	Be not hasty to depart from his face, and do not continue in an evil work: for he will do all that pleaseth him: 	Be not hasty to go out of his sight; persist not in an evil thing: for he doeth whatever pleaseth him,	Be not hasty to go out of his presence; persist not in an evil thing: for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.	Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing; for he doeth whatever pleaseth him.	Don't be hasty to go out of his presence. Don't persist in an evil thing, for he does whatever pleases him,	Be not troubled at his presence, thou mayest go, stand not in an evil thing, for all that he pleaseth he doth.	Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing; for he does whatever pleases him.	
Ecclesiastes 8:4	Where the word of a king <i>is, there is</i> power: and who may say unto him, What doest thou?	For the king's word hath power; and who may say unto him, What doest thou?	And his word is full of power: neither can any man say to him: Why dost thou so? 	because the word of a king is power; and who may say unto him, What doest thou?	Because the king's word hath power; and who may say unto him, What doest thou?	Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say to him, what doest thou?	for the king's word is supreme. Who can say to him, |What are you doing?|	Where the word of a king is power is, and who saith to him, 'What dost thou?'	Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say to him, What do you?	
Ecclesiastes 8:5	Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no evil thing: and a wise man's heart discerneth both time and judgment.	Whoso keepeth the commandment shall know no evil thing; and a wise man's heart discerneth time and judgment:	He that keepeth the commandments shall find no evil. The heart of a wise man understandeth time and answer. 	Whoso keepeth the commandment shall know no evil thing; and a wise man's heart knoweth time and manner.	Whoso keepeth the commandment shall know no evil thing; and a wise man's heart discerneth time and judgment:	He who keepeth the commandment shall feel no evil thing: and a wise man's heart discerneth both time and judgment.	Whoever keeps the commandment shall not come to harm, and his wise heart will know the time and procedure.	Whoso is keeping a command knoweth no evil thing, and time and judgment the heart of the wise knoweth.	Whoever keeps the commandment shall feel no evil thing: and a wise man's heart discerns both time and judgment.	
Ecclesiastes 8:6	Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore the misery of man <i>is</i> great upon him.	for to every purpose there is a time and judgment; because the misery of man is great upon him:	There is a time and opportunity for every business, and great affliction for man: 	For to every purpose there is time and manner. For the misery of man is great upon him;	for to every purpose there is a time and judgment; because the misery of man is great upon him:	Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore the misery of man is great upon him.	For there is a time and procedure for every purpose, although the misery of man is heavy on him.	For to every delight there is a time and a judgment, for the misfortune of man is great upon him.	Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore the misery of man is great on him.	
Ecclesiastes 8:7	For he knoweth not that which shall be: for who can tell him when it shall be?	for he knoweth not that which shall be; for who can tell him how it shall be?	Because he is ignorant of things past, and things to come he cannot know by any messenger. 	for he knoweth not that which shall be; for who can tell him how it shall be?	for he knoweth not that which shall be; for who can tell him how it shall be?	For he knoweth not that which shall be: for who can tell him when it shall be?	For he doesn't know that which will be; for who can tell him how it will be?	For he knoweth not that which shall be, for when it shall be who declareth to him?	For he knows not that which shall be: for who can tell him when it shall be?	
Ecclesiastes 8:8	<i>There is</i> no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither <i>hath he</i> power in the day of death: and <i>there is</i> no discharge in <i>that</i> war; neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it.	There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither hath he power over the day of death; and there is no discharge in war: neither shall wickedness deliver him that is given to it.	It is not in man's power to stop the spirit, neither hath he power in the day of death, neither is he suffered to rest when war is at hand, neither shall wickedness save the wicked. 	There is no man who hath control over the spirit to retain the spirit; and no one hath control over the day of death; and there is no discharge in that war, neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it.	There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither hath he power over the day of death; and there is no discharge in that war: neither shall wickedness deliver him that is given to it.	There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither hath he power in the day of death: and there is no discharge in that war; neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it.	There is no man who has power over the spirit to contain the spirit; neither does he have power over the day of death. There is no discharge in war; neither shall wickedness deliver those who practice it.	There is no man ruling over the spirit to restrain the spirit, and there is no authority over the day of death, and there is no discharge in battle, and wickedness delivereth not its possessors.	There is no man that has power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither has he power in the day of death: and there is no discharge in that war; neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it.	
Ecclesiastes 8:9	All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun: <i>there is</i> a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt.	All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun: there is a time wherein one man hath power over another to his hurt.	All these things I have considered, and applied my heart to all the works that are done under the sun. Sometimes one man ruleth over another to his own hurt. 	All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun: there is a time when man ruleth man to his hurt.	All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun: there is a time wherein one man hath power over another to his hurt.	All this have I seen, and applied my heart to every work that is done under the sun: there is a time in which one man ruleth over another to his own hurt.	All this have I seen, and applied my mind to every work that is done under the sun. There is a time in which one man has power over another to his hurt.	All this I have seen so as to give my heart to every work that hath been done under the sun; a time that man hath ruled over man to his own evil.	All this have I seen, and applied my heart to every work that is done under the sun: there is a time wherein one man rules over another to his own hurt.	
Ecclesiastes 8:10	And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done: this <i>is</i> also vanity.	So I saw the wicked buried, and they came to the grave ; and they that had done right went away from the holy place, and were forgotten in the city: this also is vanity.	I saw the wicked buried: who also when they were yet living were in the holy place, and were praised in the city as men of just works: but this also is vanity. 	And I have also seen the wicked buried and going away; and such as had acted rightly went from the holy place, and were forgotten in the city. This also is vanity.	And withal I saw the wicked buried, and they came to the grave; and they that had done right went away from the holy place, and were forgotten in the city: this also is vanity.	And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done: this is also vanity.	So I saw the wicked buried. Indeed they came also from holiness. They went and were forgotten in the city where they did this. This also is vanity.	And so I have seen the wicked buried, and they went in, even from the Holy Place they go, and they are forgotten in the city whether they had so done. This also is vanity.	And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done: this is also vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 8:11	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.	For because sentence is not speedily pronounced against the evil, the children of men commit evils without any fear. 	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the children of men is fully set in them to do evil.	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.	Because sentence hath not been done on an evil work speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of man is full within them to do evil.	Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.	
Ecclesiastes 8:12	Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and his <i>days</i> be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him:	Though a sinner do evil a hundred times, and prolong his days , yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, that fear before him:	But though a sinner do evil a hundred times, and by patience be borne withal, I know from thence that it shall be well with them that fear God, who dread his face. 	Though a sinner do evil a hundred times, and prolong his days, yet I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, because they fear before him;	Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and prolong his days, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him:	Though a sinner doeth evil a hundred times, and his days are prolonged, yet surely I know that it will be well with them that fear God, who fear before him:	Though a sinner commits crimes a hundred times, and lives long, yet surely I know that it will be better with those who fear God, who are reverent before him.	Though a sinner is doing evil a hundred times, and prolonging himself for it, surely also I know that there is good to those fearing God, who fear before Him.	Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and his days be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him:	
Ecclesiastes 8:13	But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong <i>his</i> days, <i>which are</i> as a shadow; because he feareth not before God.	but it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow; because he feareth not before God.	But let it not be well with the wicked, neither let his days be prolonged, but as a shadow let them pass away that fear not the face of the Lord. 	but it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days as a shadow, because he feareth not before God.	but it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow; because he feareth not before God.	But it will not be well with the wicked, neither will he prolong his days, which are as a shadow; because he feareth not before God.	But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he lengthen days like a shadow; because he doesn't fear God.	And good is not to the wicked, and he doth not prolong days as a shadow, because he is not fearing before God.	But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow; because he fears not before God.	
Ecclesiastes 8:14	There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there be just <i>men</i>, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there be wicked <i>men</i>, to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also <i>is</i> vanity.	There is a vanity which is done upon the earth, that there are righteous men unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there are wicked men to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.	There is also another vanity, which is done upon the earth. There are just men to whom evils happen, as though they had done the works of the wicked: and there are wicked men, who are as secure, as though they had the deeds of the just: but this also I judge most vain. 	There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there are righteous men unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; and there are wicked men to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous. I said that this also is vanity.	There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there be righteous men, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there be wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.	There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there are just men, to whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there are wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.	There is a vanity which is done on the earth, that there are righteous men to whom it happens according to the work of the wicked. Again, there are wicked men to whom it happens according to the work of the righteous. I said that this also is vanity.	There is a vanity that hath been done upon the earth, that there are righteous ones unto whom it is coming according to the work of the wicked, and there are wicked ones unto whom it is coming according to the work of the righteous. I have said that this also is vanity.	There is a vanity which is done on the earth; that there be just men, to whom it happens according to the work of the wicked; again, there be wicked men, to whom it happens according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 8:15	Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shall abide with him of his labour the days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun.	Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be joyful: for that shall abide with him in his labor all the days of his life which God hath given him under the sun.	Therefore I commended mirth, because there was no good for a man under the sun, but to eat, and drink, and be merry, and that he should take nothing else with him of his labour in the days of his life, which God hath given him under the sun. 	And I commended mirth, because there is nothing better for man under the sun than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry; for that shall abide with him of his labour the days of his life, which God hath given him under the sun.	Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shall abide with him in his labour all the days of his life which God hath given him under the sun.	Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shall abide with him of his labor the days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun.	Then I commended mirth, because a man has no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be joyful: for that will accompany him in his labor all the days of his life which God has given him under the sun.	And I have praised mirth because there is no good to man under the sun except to eat and to drink, and to rejoice, and it remaineth with him of his labour the days of his life that God hath given to him under the sun.	Then I commended mirth, because a man has no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shall abide with him of his labor the days of his life, which God gives him under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 8:16	When I applied mine heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done upon the earth: (for also <i>there is that</i> neither day nor night seeth sleep with his eyes:)	When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done upon the earth (for also there is that neither day nor night seeth sleep with his eyes),	And I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to understand the distraction that is upon earth: for there are some that day and night take no sleep with their eyes. 	When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done upon the earth (for also there is that neither day nor night seeth sleep with his eyes),	When I applied mine heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done upon the earth: (for also there is that neither day nor night seeth sleep with his eyes:)	When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done upon the earth: (for also there is that neither day nor night seeth sleep with his eyes:)	When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done on the earth (for also there is that neither day nor night sees sleep with his eyes),	When I gave my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that hath been done on the earth, (for there is also a spectator in whose eyes sleep is not by day and by night),	When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done on the earth: (for also there is that neither day nor night sees sleep with his eyes:)	
Ecclesiastes 8:17	Then I beheld all the work of God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because though a man labour to seek <i>it</i> out, yet he shall not find <i>it</i>; yea further; though a wise <i>man</i> think to know <i>it</i>, yet shall he not be able to find <i>it</i>.	then I beheld all the work of God, that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because however much a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it; yea moreover, though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it.	And I understood that man can find no reason of all those works of God that are done under the sun: and the more he shall labour to seek, so much the less shall he find: yea, though the wise man shall say, that he knoweth it, he shall not be able to find it. 	then I saw that all is the work of God, and that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because however man may labour to seek it out, yet doth he not find it; and even, if a wise man think to know it, he shall not be able to find it out.	then I beheld all the work of God, that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because however much a man labour to seek it out, yet he shall not find it; yea moreover, though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it.	Then I beheld all the work of God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because though a man may labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it; yes further; though a wise man thinketh to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it.	then I saw all the work of God, that man can't find out the work that is done under the sun, because however much a man labors to seek it out, yet he won't find it. Yes even though a wise man thinks he can comprehend it, he won't be able to find it.	then I considered all the work of God, that man is not able to find out the work that hath been done under the sun, because though man labour to seek, yet he doth not find; and even though the wise man speak of knowing he is not able to find.	Then I beheld all the work of God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it; yes farther; though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it.	
Ecclesiastes 9:1	For all this I considered in my heart even to declare all this, that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, <i>are</i> in the hand of God: no man knoweth either love or hatred <i>by</i> all <i>that is</i> before them.	For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God; whether it be love or hatred, man knoweth it not; all is before them.	All these things have I considered in my heart, that I might carefully understand them: there are just men and wise men, and their works are in the hand of God: and yet man knoweth not whether he be worthy of love, or hatred: 	For all this I laid to my heart and indeed to investigate all this, that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God; man knoweth neither love nor hatred: all is before them.	For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this; that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God: whether it be love or hatred, man knoweth it not; all is before them.	For all this I considered in my heart even to declare all this, that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God: no man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before them.	For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God; whether it is love or hatred, man doesn't know it; all is before them.	But all this I have laid unto my heart, so as to clear up the whole of this, that the righteous and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God, neither love nor hatred doth man know, the whole is before them.	For all this I considered in my heart even to declare all this, that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God: no man knows either love or hatred by all that is before them.	
Ecclesiastes 9:2	All <i>things come</i> alike to all: <i>there is</i> one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean; to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as <i>is</i> the good, so <i>is</i> the sinner; <i>and</i> he that sweareth, as <i>he</i> that feareth an oath.	All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean and to the unclean; to him that sacrificeth and to him that sacrificeth not; as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an oath.	But all things are kept uncertain for the time to come, because all things equally happen to the just and to the wicked, to the good and to the evil, to the clean and to the unclean, to him that offereth victims, and to him that despiseth sacrifices. As the good is, so also is the sinner: as the perjured, so he also that sweareth truth. 	All things come alike to all: one event to the righteous and to the wicked, to the good, and to the clean, and to the unclean, to him that sacrificeth and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the good, so is the sinner; he that sweareth, as he that feareth an oath.	All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean and to the unclean; to him that sacrificeth and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an oath.	All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean; to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an oath.	All things come alike to all. There is one event to the righteous and to the wicked; to the good, to the clean, to the unclean, to him who sacrifices, and to him who doesn't sacrifice. As is the good, so is the sinner; he who takes an oath, as he who fears an oath.	The whole is as to the whole; one event is to the righteous and to the wicked, to the good, and to the clean, and to the unclean, and to him who is sacrificing, and to him who is not sacrificing; as is the good, so is the sinner, he who is swearing as he who is fearing an oath.	All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean; to him that sacrifices, and to him that sacrifices not: as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that swears, as he that fears an oath.	
Ecclesiastes 9:3	This <i>is</i> an evil among all <i>things</i> that are done under the sun, that <i>there is</i> one event unto all: yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness <i>is</i> in their heart while they live, and after that <i>they go</i> to the dead.	This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event unto all: yea also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.	This is a very great evil among all things that are done under the sun, that the same things happen to all men: whereby also the hearts of the children of men are filled with evil, and with contempt while they live, and afterwards they shall be brought down to hell. 	This is an evil among all that is done under the sun, that one thing befalleth all: yea, also the heart of the children of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live; and after that, they have to go to the dead.	This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event unto all: yea also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.	This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.	This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.	This is an evil among all that hath been done under the sun, that one event is to all, and also the heart of the sons of man is full of evil, and madness is in their heart during their life, and after it &#8212; unto the dead.	This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.	
Ecclesiastes 9:4	For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	For to him that is joined with all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	There is no man that liveth always, or that hopeth for this: a living dog is better than a dead lion. 	For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	For to him that is joined with all the living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	For to him who is joined with all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	But to him who is joined unto all the living there is confidence, for to a living dog it is better than to the dead lion.	For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.	
Ecclesiastes 9:5	For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.	For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.	For the living know that they shall die, but the dead know nothing more, neither have they a reward any more: for the memory of them is forgotten. 	For the living know that they shall die; but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more a reward, for the memory of them is forgotten.	For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.	For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.	For the living know that they will die, but the dead don't know anything, neither do they have any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.	For the living know that they die, and the dead know not anything, and there is no more to them a reward, for their remembrance hath been forgotten.	For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.	
Ecclesiastes 9:6	Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, is now perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any <i>thing</i> that is done under the sun.	As well their love, as their hatred and their envy, is perished long ago; neither have they any more a portion for ever in anything that is done under the sun.	Their love also, and their hatred, and their envy are all perished, neither have they any part in this world, and in the work that is done under the sun. 	Their love also, and their hatred, and their envy is already perished; neither have they any more for ever a portion in all that is done under the sun.	As well their love, as their hatred and their envy, is now perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any thing that is done under the sun.	Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, hath now perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any thing that is done under the sun.	Also their love, their hatred, and their envy has perished long ago; neither have they any more a portion forever in anything that is done under the sun.	Their love also, their hatred also, their envy also, hath already perished, and they have no more a portion to the age in all that hath been done under the sun.	Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, is now perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any thing that is done under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 9:7	Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart; for God now accepteth thy works.	Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart; for God hath already accepted thy works.	Go then, and eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with gladness: because thy works please God. 	Go, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart; for God hath already accepted thy works.	Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart; for God hath already accepted thy works.	Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart; for God now accepteth thy works.	Go your way&#8212;eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart; for God has already accepted your works.	Go, eat with joy thy bread, and drink with a glad heart thy wine, for already hath God been pleased with thy works.	Go your way, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart; for God now accepts your works.	
Ecclesiastes 9:8	Let thy garments be always white; and let thy head lack no ointment.	Let thy garments be always white; and let not thy head lack oil.	At all times let thy garments be white, and let not oil depart from thy head. 	Let thy garments be always white, and let not thy head lack oil.	Let thy garments be always white; and let not thy head lack ointment.	Let thy garments be always white; and let thy head lack no ointment.	Let your garments be always white, and don't let your head lack oil.	At all times let thy garments be white, and let not perfume be lacking on thy head.	Let your garments be always white; and let your head lack no ointment.	
Ecclesiastes 9:9	Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity: for that <i>is</i> thy portion in <i>this</i> life, and in thy labour which thou takest under the sun.	Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of thy life of vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all thy days of vanity: for that is thy portion in life, and in thy labor wherein thou laborest under the sun.	Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest, all the days of thy unsteady life, which are given to thee under the sun, all the time of thy vanity: for this is thy portion in life, and in thy labour wherewith thou labourest under the sun. 	Enjoy life with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity; for that is thy portion in life, and in thy labour wherein thou art labouring under the sun.	Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity: for that is thy portion in life, and in thy labour wherein thou labourest under the sun.	Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity: for that is thy portion in this life, and in thy labor which thou takest under the sun.	Live joyfully with the wife whom you love all the days of your life of vanity, which he has given you under the sun, all your days of vanity: for that is your portion in life, and in your labor in which you labor under the sun.	See life with the wife whom thou hast loved, all the days of the life of thy vanity, that He hath given to thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity, for it is thy portion in life, even of thy labour that thou art labouring at under the sun.	Live joyfully with the wife whom you love all the days of the life of your vanity, which he has given you under the sun, all the days of your vanity: for that is your portion in this life, and in your labor which you take under the sun.	
Ecclesiastes 9:10	Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do <i>it</i> with thy might; for <i>there is</i> no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest.	Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Sheol, whither thou goest.	Whatsoever thy hand is able to do, do it earnestly: for neither work, nor reason, nor wisdom, nor knowledge shall be in hell, whither thou art hastening. 	Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Sheol, whither thou goest.	Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest.	Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest.	Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Sheol, where you are going.	All that thy hand findeth to do, with thy power do, for there is no work, and device, and knowledge, and wisdom in Sheol whither thou art going.	Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, where you go.	
Ecclesiastes 9:11	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race <i>is</i> not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.	I turned me to another thing, and I saw that under the sun, the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the wise, nor riches to the learned, nor favour to the skilful: but time and chance in all. 	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to the intelligent, nor yet favour to men of knowledge; but time and chance happeneth to them all.	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but fame and chance happeneth to them all.	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happen to them all.	I have turned so as to see under the sun, that not to the swift is the race, nor to the mighty the battle, nor even to the wise bread, nor even to the intelligent wealth, nor even to the skilful grace, for time and chance happen with them all.	I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happens to them all.	
Ecclesiastes 9:12	For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so <i>are</i> the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.	For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, even so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.	Man knoweth not his own end: but as fishes are taken with the hook, and as birds are caught with the snare, so men are taken in the evil time, when it shall suddenly come upon them. 	For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are taken with the snare, like them are the children of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.	For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, even so, are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.	For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.	For man also doesn't know his time. As the fish that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, even so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly on them.	For even man knoweth not his time; as fish that are taken hold of by an evil net, and as birds that are taken hold of by a snare, like these are the sons of man snared at an evil time, when it falleth upon them suddenly.	For man also knows not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly on them.	
Ecclesiastes 9:13	This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it <i>seemed</i> great unto me:	I have also seen wisdom under the sun on this wise, and it seemed great unto me:	This wisdom also I have seen under the sun, and it seemed to me to be very great: 	This also have I seen as wisdom under the sun, and it was great unto me.	I have also seen wisdom under the sun on this wise, and it seemed great unto me:	This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed to me great:	I have also seen wisdom under the sun in this way, and it seemed great to me.	This also I have seen: wisdom under the sun, and it is great to me.	This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great to me:	
Ecclesiastes 9:14	<i>There was</i> a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:	There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it.	A little city, and few men in it: there came against it a great king, and invested it, and built bulwarks round about it, and the siege was perfect. 	There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and encompassed it, and built great bulwarks against it:	There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:	There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:	There was a little city, and few men within it; and a great king came against it, besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it.	A little city, and few men in it, and a great king hath come unto it, and hath surrounded it, and hath built against it great bulwarks;	There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:	
Ecclesiastes 9:15	Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.	Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.	Now there was found in it a man poor and wise, and he delivered the city by his wisdom, and no man afterward remembered that poor man. 	and there was found in it a poor wise man, who by his wisdom delivered the city; but no man remembered that poor man.	Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.	Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.	Now a poor wise man was found in it, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.	and there hath been found in it a poor wise man, and he hath delivered the city by his wisdom, and men have not remembered that poor man!	Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.	
Ecclesiastes 9:16	Then said I, Wisdom <i>is</i> better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom <i>is</i> despised, and his words are not heard.	Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.	And I said that wisdom is better than strength: how then is the wisdom of the poor man slighted, and his words not heard? 	Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength; but the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.	Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.	Then said I, wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.	Then I said, |Wisdom is better than strength.| Nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.	And I said, 'Better is wisdom than might, and the wisdom of the poor is despised, and his words are not heard.' &#8212; 	Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.	
Ecclesiastes 9:17	The words of wise <i>men are</i> heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.	The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.	The words of the wise are heard in silence, more than the cry of a prince among fools. 	The words of the wise are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.	The words of the wise spoken in quiet are heard more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.	The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.	The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the cry of him who rules among fools.	The words of the wise in quiet are heard, More than the cry of a ruler over fools.	The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that rules among fools.	
Ecclesiastes 9:18	Wisdom <i>is</i> better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroyeth much good.	Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroyeth much good.	Better is wisdom, than weapons of war: and he that shall offend in one, shall lose many good things. 	Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroyeth much good.	Wisdom is better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroyeth much good.	Wisdom is better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroyeth much good.	Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroys much good.	Better is wisdom than weapons of conflict, And one sinner destroyeth much good!	Wisdom is better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroys much good.	
Ecclesiastes 10:1	Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour: <i>so doth</i> a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom <i>and</i> honour.	Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to send forth an evil odor;'so doth a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor.	Dying flies spoil the sweetness of the ointment. Wisdom and glory is more precious than a small and shortlived folly. 	Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to stink and ferment; so a little folly is weightier than wisdom and honour.	Dead flies cause the ointment of the perfumer to send forth a stinking savour: so doth a little folly outweigh wisdom and honour.	Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth an offensive odor: so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor.	Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to send forth an evil odor; so does a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor.	Dead flies cause a perfumer's perfume To send forth a stink; The precious by reason of wisdom &#8212; By reason of honour &#8212; a little folly!	Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking smell: so does a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor.	
Ecclesiastes 10:2	A wise man's heart <i>is</i> at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.	A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.	The heart of a wise man is in his right hand, and the heart of a fool is in his left hand. 	The heart of a wise man is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.	A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.	A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart is at his left.	A wise man's heart is at his right hand, but a fool's heart at his left.	The heart of the wise is at his right hand, And the heart of a fool at his left.	A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.	
Ecclesiastes 10:3	Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth <i>him</i>, and he saith to every one <i>that</i> he <i>is</i> a fool.	Yea also, when the fool walketh by the way, his understanding faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.	Yea, and the fool when he walketh in the way, whereas be himself is a fool, esteemeth all men fools. 	Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his sense faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.	Yea also, when the fool walketh by the way, his understanding faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.	Also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.	Yes also, when the fool walks by the way, his understanding fails him, and he says to everyone that he is a fool.	And also, when he that is a fool Is walking in the way, his heart is lacking, And he hath said to every one, 'He is a fool.'	Yes also, when he that is a fool walks by the way, his wisdom fails him, and he said to every one that he is a fool.	
Ecclesiastes 10:4	If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for yielding pacifieth great offences.	If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for gentleness allayeth great offences.	If the spirit of him that hath power, ascend upon thee, leave not thy place: because care will make the greatest sins to cease. 	If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for quietness pacifieth great offences.	If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for yielding allayeth great offences.	If the spirit of the ruler riseth against thee, leave not thy place; for yielding pacifieth great offenses.	If the spirit of the ruler rises up against you, don't leave your place; for gentleness lays great offenses to rest.	If the spirit of the ruler go up against thee, Thy place leave not, For yielding quieteth great sinners.	If the spirit of the ruler rise up against you, leave not your place; for yielding pacifies great offenses.	
Ecclesiastes 10:5	There is an evil <i>which</i> I have seen under the sun, as an error <i>which</i> proceedeth from the ruler:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as it were an error which proceedeth from the ruler:	There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as it were by an error proceeding from the face of the prince: 	There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as an error that proceedeth from the ruler:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as it were an error which proceedeth from the ruler:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceedeth from the ruler:	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, the sort of error which proceeds from the ruler.	There is an evil I have seen under the sun, As an error that goeth out from the ruler,	There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceeds from the ruler:	
Ecclesiastes 10:6	Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.	folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in a low place.	A fool set in high dignity, and the rich sitting beneath. 	folly is set in great dignities, but the rich sit in a low place.	folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.	Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.	Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in a low place.	He hath set the fool in many high places, And the rich in a low place do sit.	Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.	
Ecclesiastes 10:7	I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth.	I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking like servants upon the earth.	I have seen servants upon horses: and princes walking on the ground as servants. 	I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth.	I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth.	I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth.	I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking like servants on the earth.	I have seen servants on horses, And princes walking as servants on the earth.	I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking as servants on the earth.	
Ecclesiastes 10:8	He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an hedge, a serpent shall bite him.	He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh through a wall, a serpent shall bite him.	He that diggeth a pit, shall fall into it: and he that breaketh a hedge, a serpent shall bite him. 	He that diggeth a pit falleth into it; and whoso breaketh down a hedge, a serpent biteth him.	He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh through a fence, a serpent shall bite him.	He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoever breaketh a hedge, a serpent shall bite him.	He who digs a pit may fall into it; and whoever breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake.	Whoso is digging a pit falleth into it, And whoso is breaking a hedge, a serpent biteth him.	He that digs a pit shall fall into it; and whoever breaks an hedge, a serpent shall bite him.	
Ecclesiastes 10:9	Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith; <i>and</i> he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby.	Whoso heweth out stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that cleaveth wood is endangered thereby.	He that removeth stones, shall be hurt by them: and he that cutteth trees, shall be wounded by them. 	Whoso removeth stones is hurt therewith; he that cleaveth wood is endangered thereby.	Whoso heweth out stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that cleaveth wood is endangered thereby.	Whoever removeth stones shall be hurt by them; and he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered by it.	Whoever carves out stones may be injured by them. Whoever splits wood may be endangered thereby.	Whoso is removing stones is grieved by them, Whoso is cleaving trees endangered by them.	Whoever removes stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that splits wood shall be endangered thereby.	
Ecclesiastes 10:10	If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom <i>is</i> profitable to direct.	If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.	If the iron be blunt, and be not as before, but be made blunt, with much labour it shall be sharpened: and after industry shall follow wisdom. 	If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he apply more strength; but wisdom is profitable to give success.	If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.	If the iron is blunt, and he doth not whet the edge, then must he use more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.	If the axe is blunt, and one doesn't sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength; but skill brings success.	If the iron hath been blunt, And he the face hath not sharpened, Then doth he increase strength, And wisdom is advantageous to make right.	If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.	
Ecclesiastes 10:11	Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler is no better.	If the serpent bite before it is charmed, then is there no advantage in the charmer.	If a serpent bite in silence, he is nothing better that backbiteth secretly. 	If the serpent bite before enchantment, then the charmer hath no advantage.	If the serpent bite before it be charmed, then is there no advantage in the charmer.	Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler is no better.	If the snake bites before it is charmed, then is there no profit for the charmer's tongue.	If the serpent biteth without enchantment, Then there is no advantage to a master of the tongue.	Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler is no better.	
Ecclesiastes 10:12	The words of a wise man's mouth <i>are</i> gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.	The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.	The words of the mouth of a wise man are grace: but the lips of a fool shall throw him down headlong. 	The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool swallow up himself.	The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.	The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.	The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but a fool is swallowed by his own lips.	Words of the mouth of the wise are gracious, And the lips of a fool swallow him up.	The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.	
Ecclesiastes 10:13	The beginning of the words of his mouth <i>is</i> foolishness: and the end of his talk <i>is</i> mischievous madness.	The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.	The beginning of his words is folly, and the end of his talk is a mischievous error. 	The beginning of the words of his mouth is folly; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.	The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.	The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.	The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.	The beginning of the words of his mouth is folly, And the latter end of his mouth Is mischievous madness.	The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.	
Ecclesiastes 10:14	A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?	A fool also multiplieth words: yet man knoweth not what shall be; and that which shall be after him, who can tell him?	A fool multiplieth words. A man cannot tell what hath been before him: and what shall be after him, who can tell him? 	And the fool multiplieth words: yet man knoweth not what shall be; and what shall be after him, who will tell him?	A fool also multiplieth words: yet man knoweth not what shall be; and that which shall be after him, who can tell him?	A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?	A fool also multiplies words. Man doesn't know what will be; and that which will be after him, who can tell him?	And the fool multiplieth words: 'Man knoweth not that which is, And that which is after him, who doth declare to him?'	A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?	
Ecclesiastes 10:15	The labour of the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city.	The labor of fools wearieth every one of them; for he knoweth not how to go to the city.	The labour of fools shall afflict them that know not bow to go to the city. 	The labour of fools wearieth them, because they know not how to go to the city.	The labour of fools wearieth every one of them, for he knoweth not how to go to the city.	The labor of the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city.	The labor of fools wearies every one of them; for he doesn't know how to go to the city.	The labour of the foolish wearieth him, In that he hath not known to go unto the city.	The labor of the foolish wearies every one of them, because he knows not how to go to the city.	
Ecclesiastes 10:16	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king <i>is</i> a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and when the princes eat in the morning. 	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!	Woe to you, land, when your king is a child, and your princes eat in the morning!	Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a youth, And thy princes do eat in the morning.	Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes eat in the morning!	
Ecclesiastes 10:17	Blessed <i>art</i> thou, O land, when thy king <i>is</i> the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	Blessed is the land, whose king is noble, and whose princes eat in due season for refreshment, and not for riotousness. 	Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is a son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	Happy are you, land, when your king is the son of nobles, and your princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	Happy art thou, O land, When thy king is a son of freemen, And thy princes do eat in due season, For might, and not for drunkenness.	Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobles, and your princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!	
Ecclesiastes 10:18	By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through.	By slothfulness the roof sinketh in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaketh.	By slothfulness a building shall be brought down, and through the weakness of hands, the house shall drop through. 	By much sloth fulness the framework falleth in; and through idleness of the hands the house drippeth.	By slothfulness the roof sinketh in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaketh.	By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through.	By slothfulness the roof sinks in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaks.	By slothfulness is the wall brought low, And by idleness of the hands doth the house drop.	By much slothfulness the building decays; and through idleness of the hands the house drops through.	
Ecclesiastes 10:19	A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry: but money answereth all <i>things</i>.	A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh glad the life; and money answereth all things.	For laughter they make bread, and wine that the living may feast: and all things obey money. 	A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh life merry; but money answereth everything.	A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh glad the life: and money answereth all things.	A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry: but money answereth all things.	A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes the life glad; and money is the answer for all things.	For mirth they are making a feast, And wine maketh life joyful, And the silver answereth with all.	A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes merry: but money answers all things.	
Ecclesiastes 10:20	Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.	Revile not the king, no, not in thy thought; and revile not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the heavens shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.	Detract not the king, no not in thy thought; and speak not evil of the rich man in thy private chamber: because even the birds of the air will carry thy voice, and he that hath wings will tell what thou hast said. 	Curse not the king, no, not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for the bird of the air will carry the voice, and that which hath wings will tell the matter.	Curse not the king, no, not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.	Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bed-chamber: for a bird of the air will carry the voice, and that which hath wings will tell the matter.	Don't curse the king, no, not in your thoughts; and don't curse the rich in your bedroom: for a bird of the sky may carry your voice, and that which has wings may tell the matter.	Even in thy mind a king revile not, And in the inner parts of thy bed-chamber Revile not the rich: For a fowl of the heavens causeth the voice to go, And a possessor of wings declareth the word.	Curse not the king, no not in your thought; and curse not the rich in your bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which has wings shall tell the matter.	
Ecclesiastes 11:1	Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days.	Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shalt find it after many days.	Cast thy bread upon the running waters: for after a long time thou shalt find it again. 	Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shalt find it after many days.	Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days.	Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days.	Cast your bread on the waters; for you shall find it after many days.	Send forth thy bread on the face of the waters, For in the multitude of the days thou dost find it.	Cast your bread on the waters: for you shall find it after many days.	
Ecclesiastes 11:2	Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.	Give a portion to seven, yea, even unto eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.	Give a portion to seven, and also to eight: for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. 	Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.	Give a portion to seven, yea, even unto eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.	Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.	Give a portion to seven, yes, even to eight; for you don't know what evil will be on the earth.	Give a portion to seven, and even to eight, For thou knowest not what evil is on the earth.	Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for you know not what evil shall be on the earth.	
Ecclesiastes 11:3	If the clouds be full of rain, they empty <i>themselves</i> upon the earth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.	If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth; and if a tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there shall it be.	If the clouds be full, they will pour out rain upon the earth. If the tree fall to the south, or to the north, in what place soever it shall fall, there shall it be. 	If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth; and if a tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.	If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth: and if a tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there shall it be.	If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth: and if the tree falleth towards the south, or towards the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.	If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth; and if a tree falls toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falls, there shall it be.	If the thick clouds are full of rain, On the earth they empty themselves; And if a tree doth fall in the south or to the north, The place where the tree falleth, there it is.	If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it shall be.	
Ecclesiastes 11:4	He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.	He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.	He that observeth the wind, shall not sow: and he that considereth the clouds, shall never reap. 	He that observeth the wind will not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds will not reap.	He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.	He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.	He who observes the wind won't sow; and he who regards the clouds won't reap.	Whoso is observing the wind soweth not, And whoso is looking on the thick clouds reapeth not.	He that observes the wind shall not sow; and he that regards the clouds shall not reap.	
Ecclesiastes 11:5	As thou knowest not what <i>is</i> the way of the spirit, <i>nor</i> how the bones <i>do grow</i> in the womb of her that is with child: even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all.	As thou knowest not what is the way of the wind, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child; even so thou knowest not the work of God who doeth all.	As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the bones are joined together in the womb of her that is with child: so thou knowest not the works of God, who is the maker of all. 	As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, how the bones grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the work of God who maketh all.	As thou knowest not what is the way of the wind, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child; even so thou knowest not the work of God who doeth all.	As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor the structure of the parts of conception in her that is with child: even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all.	As you don't know what is the way of the wind, nor how the bones grow in the womb of her who is with child; even so you don't know the work of God who does all.	As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, How &#8212; bones in the womb of the full one, So thou knowest not the work of God who maketh the whole.	As you know not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child: even so you know not the works of God who makes all.	
Ecclesiastes 11:6	In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both <i>shall be</i> alike good.	In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand; for thou knowest not which shall prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.	In the morning sow thy seed, and In the evening let not thy hand cease: for thou knowest not which may rather spring up, this or that: and if both together, it shall be the better. 	In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand; for thou knowest not which shall prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.	In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand: for thou knowest not which shall prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.	In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.	In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening don't withhold your hand; for you don't know which will prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both will be equally good.	In the morning sow thy seed, And at even withdraw not thy hand, For thou knowest not which is right, this or that, Or whether both of them alike are good.	In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening withhold not your hand: for you know not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.	
Ecclesiastes 11:7	Truly the light <i>is</i> sweet, and a pleasant <i>thing it is</i> for the eyes to behold the sun:	Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun.	The light is sweet, and it is delightful for the eyes to see the sun. 	Now the light is sweet, and pleasant is it to the eyes to see the sun;	Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun.	Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun:	Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to see the sun.	Sweet also is the light, And good for the eyes to see the sun.	Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun:	
Ecclesiastes 11:8	But if a man live many years, <i>and</i> rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that cometh <i>is</i> vanity.	Yea, if a man live many years, let him rejoice in them all; but let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity.	If a man live many years, and have rejoiced in them all, he must remember the darksome time, and the many days: which when they shall come, the things past shall be accused of vanity. 	but if a man live many years, and rejoice in them all, yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many: all that cometh is vanity.	Yea, if a man live many years, let him rejoice in them all; but let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity.	But if a man shall live many years, and rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity.	Yes, if a man lives many years, let him rejoice in them all; but let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that comes is vanity.	But, if man liveth many years, In all of them let him rejoice, And remember the days of darkness, For they are many! all that is coming is vanity.	But if a man live many years, and rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that comes is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 11:9	Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these <i>things</i> God will bring thee into judgment.	Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thy heart, and in the sight of thine eyes; but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment.	Rejoice therefore, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart be in that which is good in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thy heart, and in the sight of thy eyes: and know that for all these God will bring thee into judgment. 	Rejoice, young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thy heart, and in the sight of thine eyes; but know that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment.	Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment.	Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thy heart, and in the sight of thy eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment.	Rejoice, young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth, and walk in the ways of your heart, and in the sight of your eyes; but know that for all these things God will bring you into judgment.	Rejoice, O young man, in thy childhood, And let thy heart gladden thee in days of thy youth, And walk in the ways of thy heart, And in the sight of thine eyes, And know thou that for all these, Doth God bring thee into judgment.	Rejoice, O young man, in your youth; and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth, and walk in the ways of your heart, and in the sight of your eyes: but know you, that for all these things God will bring you into judgment.	
Ecclesiastes 11:10	Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh: for childhood and youth <i>are</i> vanity.	Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh; for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.	Remove anger from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh. For youth and pleasure are vain. 	Then remove discontent from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh; for childhood and youth are vanity.	Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh: for youth and the prime of life are vanity.	Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity.	Therefore remove sorrow from your heart, and put away evil from your flesh; for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.	And turn aside anger from thy heart, And cause evil to pass from thy flesh, For the childhood and the age are vanity!	Therefore remove sorrow from your heart, and put away evil from your flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 12:1	Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them;	Remember also thy Creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil days come, and the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them;	Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth, before the time of affliction come, and the years draw nigh of which thou shalt say: They please me not: 	And remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil days come, and the years draw nigh, of which thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them;	Remember also thy Creator in the days of thy youth, or ever the evil days come, and the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them;	Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them;	Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come, and the years draw near, when you will say, |I have no pleasure in them;|	Remember also thy Creators in days of thy youth, While that the evil days come not, Nor the years have arrived, that thou sayest, 'I have no pleasure in them.'	Remember now your Creator in the days of your youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw near, when you shall say, I have no pleasure in them;	
Ecclesiastes 12:2	While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain:	before the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars, are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain;	Before the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars be darkened, and the clouds return after the rain: 	before the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars, be darkened, and the clouds return after the rain;	or ever the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars, be darkened, and the clouds return after the rain:	While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, are not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain:	Before the sun, the light, the moon, and the stars are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain;	While that the sun is not darkened, and the light, And the moon, and the stars, And the thick clouds returned after the rain.	While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain:	
Ecclesiastes 12:3	In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened,	in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows shall be darkened,	When the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall stagger, and the grinders shall be idle in a small number, and they that look through the holes shall be darkened: 	in the day when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows are darkened,	in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened,	In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows shall be darkened,	in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those who look out of the windows are darkened,	In the day that keepers of the house tremble, And men of strength have bowed themselves, And grinders have ceased, because they have become few. And those looking out at the windows have become dim,	In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened,	
Ecclesiastes 12:4	And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of musick shall be brought low;	and the doors shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;	And they shall shut the doors in the street, when the grinder's voice shall be low, and they shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall grow deaf. 	and the doors are shut toward the street; when the sound of the grinding is subdued, and they rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of song are brought low;	and the door shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;	And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding shall be low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low.	and the doors shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;	And doors have been shut in the street. When the noise of the grinding is low, And one riseth at the voice of the bird, And all daughters of song are bowed down.	And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;	
Ecclesiastes 12:5	Also <i>when</i> they shall be afraid of <i>that which is</i> high, and fears <i>shall be</i> in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets:	yea, they shall be afraid of that which is high, and terrors'shall be in the way; and the almond-tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; because man goeth to his everlasting home, and the mourners go about the streets:	And they shall fear high things, and they shall be afraid in the way, the almond tree shall flourish, the locust shall be made fat, and the caper tree shall be destroyed: because man shall go into the house of his eternity, and the mourners shall go round about in the street. 	they are also afraid of what is high, and terrors are in the way, and the almond is despised, and the grasshopper is a burden, and the caper-berry is without effect; (for man goeth to his age-long home, and the mourners go about the streets;)	yea, they shall be afraid of that which is high, and terrors shall be in the way; and the almond tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and the caper-berry shall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets:	Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets:	yes, they shall be afraid of heights, and terrors will be in the way; and the almond tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; because man goes to his everlasting home, and the mourners go about the streets:	Also of that which is high they are afraid, And of the low places in the way, And the almond-tree is despised, And the grasshopper is become a burden, And want is increased, For man is going unto his home age-during, And the mourners have gone round through the street.	Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail: because man goes to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets:	
Ecclesiastes 12:6	Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern.	before the silver cord is loosed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern,	Before the silver cord be broken, and the golden fillet shrink back, and the pitcher be crushed at the fountain, and the wheel be broken upon the cistern, 	before the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be shattered at the fountain, or the wheel be broken at the cistern;	or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern;	Or ever the silver cord shall be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern.	before the silver cord is severed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the spring, or the wheel broken at the cistern,	While that the silver cord is not removed, And the golden bowl broken, And the pitcher broken by the fountain, And the wheel broken at the well.	Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern.	
Ecclesiastes 12:7	Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.	and the dust returneth to the earth as it was, and the spirit returneth unto God who gave it.	And the dust return into its earth, from whence it was, and the spirit return to God, who gave it. 	and the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit return unto God who gave it.	and the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit return unto God who gave it.	Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return to God who gave it.	and the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.	And the dust returneth to the earth as it was, And the spirit returneth to God who gave it.	Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return to God who gave it.	
Ecclesiastes 12:8	Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher; all <i>is</i> vanity.	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher; all is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, said Ecclesiastes, and all things are vanity. 	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher: all is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher; all is vanity.	Vanity of vanities saith the preacher; all is vanity.	|Vanity of vanities,| says the Preacher. |All is vanity!|	Vanity of vanities, said the preacher, the whole is vanity.	Vanity of vanities, said the preacher; all is vanity.	
Ecclesiastes 12:9	And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, <i>and</i> set in order many proverbs.	And further, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yea, he pondered, and sought out, and'set in order many proverbs.	And whereas Ecclesiastes was very wise, he taught the people, and declared the things that he had done: and seeking out, he set forth many parables. 	And moreover, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; and he pondered, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs.	And further, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yea, he pondered, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs.	And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge: yes, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs.	Further, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered, sought out, and set in order many proverbs.	And further, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge, and gave ear, and sought out &#8212; he made right many similes.	And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yes, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs.	
Ecclesiastes 12:10	The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and <i>that which was</i> written <i>was</i> upright, <i>even</i> words of truth.	The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written uprightly, even words of truth.	He sought profitable words, and wrote words most right, and full of truth. 	The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words; and that which was written is upright, words of truth.	The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written uprightly, even words of truth.	The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that which was written was upright, even words of truth.	The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written blamelessly, words of truth.	The preacher sought to find out pleasing words, and, written by the upright, words of truth.	The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that which was written was upright, even words of truth.	
Ecclesiastes 12:11	The words of the wise <i>are</i> as goads, and as nails fastened <i>by</i> the masters of assemblies, <i>which</i> are given from one shepherd.	The words of the wise are as goads; and as nails well fastened are the words of the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.	The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails deeply fastened in, which by the counsel of masters are given from one shepherd. 	The words of the wise are as goads, and the collections of them as nails fastened in: they are given from one shepherd.	The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails well fastened are the words of the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.	The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.	The words of the wise are like goads; and like nails well fastened are words from the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.	Words of the wise are as goads, and as fences planted by the masters of collections, they have been given by one shepherd.	The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.	
Ecclesiastes 12:12	And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many books <i>there is</i> no end; and much study <i>is</i> a weariness of the flesh.	And furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	More than these, my son, require not. Of making many books there is no end: and much study is an affliction of the flesh. 	And besides, my son, be warned by them: of making many books there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	And furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	Furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	And further, from these, my son, be warned; the making of many books hath no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.	
Ecclesiastes 12:13	Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this <i>is</i> the whole <i>duty</i> of man.	This is the end of the matter; all hath been heard: fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man.	Let us all hear together the conclusion of the discourse. Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is all man: 	Let us hear the end of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole of man.	This is the end of the matter; all hath been heard: fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man.	Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.	This is the end of the matter. All has been heard. Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man.	The end of the whole matter let us hear: &#8212; 'Fear God, and keep His commands, for this is the whole of man.	Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.	
Ecclesiastes 12:14	For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether <i>it be</i> good, or whether <i>it be</i> evil.	For God will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.	And all things that are done, God will bring into judgment for every error, whether it be good or evil.	For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil.	For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil.	For God will bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it is good, or whether it is evil.	For God will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it is good, or whether it is evil.	For every work doth God bring into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether good or bad.'	For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.	
